# Notes 24 July

## Attendees
 
* Anne
* Alex
* Batool
* Jennifer
* Emma
* David
* Danny
* Kirstie
* Malvika


## Topics/Rooms

* Quiet room: Emma, David, Danny
* Saudi Hub - Book Dash (Batool, Anne, Kirstie & Malvika)
    * Number of people: 4-5 people, complete beginners in openness & open science, mostly from biology background
    * What would funding & support look like?
    * BA: to apply for BD hub & committee
    * Should this hub be in either Liverpool, London, or Saudi Arabia?
    * Networking & talking opportunities to learn from the environment
    * Have small funding for travel from Open Collective, IOI funding a possibility as well
    * Hub models means not traveling
    * Downside of the hub model can be the way it ties to geography
    * Where does BA want people to come from?
    * Reference to [F.O.R.M. event](https://forumforopenresearch.com/programme/) happening in 22-24 October in autumn
    * Can [Open Bioinformatics Foundation](https://www.open-bio.org/) support this work (need to have bioinformatics relationship)
    * Book Dash Committee has been split into two groups: Working Group and Delivery Team
        * Working Group: Asking questions like: How do hubs interact with each other and online?
    * Example of [Mozilla Global Sprint](https://github.com/mozilla/global-sprint): mix of online & in person, with a much larger idea to convene
* The Practitioners Hub Workshop planning: 
    - Jen and Ale discussion about the panel

## Advance asynchronous updates

* 
* 
* 