# 9 June 2023

## Attendees
 
* Emma
* Arron
* David
* Anne
* Eirini - contined working on the [spreadsheet of TTW presentations](https://github.com/orgs/alan-turing-institute/projects/32/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=10867622)
* Hari
* Jen
* Kirstie
* Ale
* Batool
* Malvika
* Gabin

## Topics/Rooms

* [Testing GitHub Pages Deploy Preview feature] (https://github.com/actions/deploy-pages/blob/368bf1aa22b9265440e251b9216520e3f91c2d5b/action.yml#L36-L39) : Arron
* More GH repos and projects to rule then all: Dave, Batool, David
* One Way ticket to Sustainability City (Hari/Cami)
* Fireside Chat Planning (just in case - Ale/Anne)
* One Way ticket to RAM City (Jen/Alden) 
* Git Good Workshop: Gabin, Sophia
* Main room governance: Kirstie, Malvika, Anne and Alex - Discussion around next Governance next steps and where to store information. We also started to figure out how to manage having a website for the Turing Way Practitioner Hub and where it should sit.

## Advance asynchronous updates

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 