# Notes 4 September

## Attendees

* Eirini
* Chris
* Emma 
* Bastian
* Gabin
* Jen


## Topics/Rooms

* Main room: governance
    * https://hackmd.io/@KirstieJane/turing-way-turing-inst
* TTW Fireside Chat planning room
* 
* 
* 

## Notes

* Main room: Governance
    * Need a data protection page
        * Turing Institute provides the data protection responsibilities for The Turing Way project
            * Note that means we can't choose _who_ is the named data protection officer
        * Need to figure out how we use our own preferences of technologies
            * EG: How can we use google docs?
        * Can be called: "Data Protection"
    * Need a "Financial Connection" page
        * Who is paid to work on the Turing Way
        * Where does the Turing Institute get their funding from?
            * How transparent can we be?
    * A page (or section of the DP page ðŸ‘†) on where to go to ask questions or find information that may be more informal than, say, data access requests (e.g. a dedicated Slack channel).
        * This could be useful for people who may not have high levels of trust and just need to find out more, or perhaps be reassured by other members of the community.
    * Need a different page - not related to the connection between The Turing Institute and The Turing Way - which details how you can be funded to work on The Turing Way
    * Question: What would we need from applicants submitting a grant?
        * Need to know that they're doing it!
        * Commit to working in the open
        * Commit to a report? Regular updates to steering committee?