# Notes 19 July

## Attendees
 
* Kirstie
* Eirini
* Alex
* Cami
* Emma
* Alden
* Batool Almarzouq
* Esther 
* Bastian
* :clock1: (Sophia arriving late) 

## Topics/Rooms

* Project Sustainability 
  * Cami
  * Alden
* The Practitioners Hub Events coodination
    * Alex (if possible with Malvika) ----> we didn't open it. 
* Governance - main room
  * Kirstie
  * Alex
  * Bastian
  * Malvika
* Quiet working room?
    * Batool (working in documentation for AIM RSF GH Org)
    * Esther (getting back on top of things?)
    * 
* Chatty working room ([repositories chapter for TTW](https://hackmd.io/hIa563koR3Ssdc6B_1Skyw?both))
    * Eirini
    * Emma

## Advance asynchronous updates

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 