# 5 June

## Attendees

* Malvika :key: 
* Anne :sunflower: -> :cloud: (where did the sun go?!)
* Gabin :sun_behind_cloud: 
* Emma :sunflower: 
* Cami :dog:
* Eirini :sunny: 
* Sophia :floppy_disk: 
* Bastian :postbox: 
* Batool :sunflower: 
* Alex :dolphin: 
* Chris :musical_score: 
* David :national_park: 
* Alejandro :sweat_drops: 
* Kirstie :blossom:
* Esther
* Alden :octopus: 


## Topics/Rooms

* Sophia + Cass + Gabin: Git Good Workshop
    * Planning the exercises and process for running the Git Good workshop during the widening participation Summer School.
    * Git Good is a staple "introduction" to GitHub using the turing way's repo, and we're repurposing the materials and format for the summer school where students will fork and then use their own repos to work on their projects.
    * The discussion was around what to set up in the template repo, and what exercises to run for the students (forking, PR's, issues, etc) 
* David + Ale + Chris : GH multi repo project boards
    * Roadmap new feature basic working, issue based!
    * Mixing different types of issues
    * Using custom project fields
    * Strategy before structure
* Alejandro + Anne + Gabin: Fireside chat planning
    * Planning process for the Fireside Chat in June 2023
    * Environmental topics are related to Research infrastructure (i.e. Energy), Environmental Impact (i.e. Carbon Footprint), Uses & Applications (i.e. Tech4Good), and Wider structures/ideologies (i.e. Degrowth)
    * Happy World Environment Day :deciduous_tree: 
* Malvika, Alex and Jo: Project Delivery (Turing - Crick Material) 
    * We agreed on delivery dates for the Turing-Crik Training material 
* Esther : quiet room to read [a paper](http://gala.gre.ac.uk/id/eprint/42730)? 
    * [OSF link](https://osf.io/preprints/metaarxiv/r6cvx/) (works without logging in)
        * Thanks! People should really add the DOI in their preprints - grr! :) 
        * Really nice overview of work related to replication - need to provide some feedback on minor details and should hopefully get through the rest of that today :D 
* Alden, Eirini, Emma: trainers and mentors
    * We discussed where we were with our project board tasks: https://github.com/orgs/alan-turing-institute/projects/32/views/1
    * Decided to ask KW, MS about onboarding tasks
    * Decided to start work on training workshop templates and new chapter about this - EK to start
    * Alden will update the list of presentations and Eirini will help to check this.
* Batool: quiet room
    * I worked on RSF-related tasks (forcasts, emails, docs)
* Main room: Governance
  * Pom 1: Kirstie, Bastian, Cami and Jessie
    * Survey about status for governance
      * https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfQoINlmgyaXVEvMRxtco9pocCe4ShpJzNxA_02UZPnHHP8hQ/viewform
    * Etherpad from May community call:
      * https://pad.sfconservancy.org/p/ttw-may2023-communitycall
  * Pom 2: Kirstie, Bastian, Jessie, Malvika, Alden, Emma, Eirini, Chris
    * Onboarding 
      * Ideally not part of the training and mentors working group 
      * Should we think about onboarding into working groups or into the main project itself
    * Current onboarding docs: Dispersed
      * https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-core-team-onboarding
      * https://the-turing-way.start.page
      * https://hackmd.io/@turingway/demo-intro
      * https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/acknowledgement/acknowledgement-examples.html
      * https://book.the-turing-way.org/project-design/persona/persona-contributors.html
      * Governance status with non-governance and governance roles: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z_r0G6dmtlw0icQ_ctkhLG_QxZDhuRZaSTSkGvAVK6w/edit
          * We have pathways for non-governance roles but not for governance roles
          * Governance roles are missing how decisons are made - who decides who goes in governance roles
      * Onboarding in working group is different from onboarding in the project
          * Translation team is struggling to keep the work going as much of time is spent on onboarding
          * We need to clarify how people are brought in from community to work with the working groups
          * The core team should have leaders who are leading these groups, maybe not all current members are interested in leading and hence should not be in core team. - what is the path?
    * Do people want to join The Turing Way as a whole abstract concept, or do we want to onboard people into working groups? Something easier to understand!
        * Might be that we need a different kind of working group for a WG-specific onboarding process though. 
    * Mapping out of user journeys was useful for Turing Commons, might explore similar for TTW 
    * User journeys need to stay away from the core team. 
      * Constrains creativity and options from new members - follow what has been defined by those in power rather than finding what works for them.
      * BUT it is important that some leaders do this work otherwise it is too difficult to navigate getting started and seeing how to get to a leadership position. 
    * What is stopping us - everyone can do anything in the turing way

### Advance asynchronous updates

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
