# Collaboration Cafe Notes - 21 February

# Check-in

Name + Pronouns + Early bird üïäÔ∏è or night owl?ü¶â + an emoji (if you'd like!: https://emojipedia.org/, see also: https://openmoji.org/)
(Remember that this is a public document. Your answer You can use a pseudonym if you'd prefer.) Use the ü§´ emoji if you would not like to be included in our public archive. These notes will be archived on The Turing Way repository.

* Anne + she/her + aspirational early bird, realistically a night owl + 
* Richard J. Acton + + night owl + (not an emoji but a source of them [https://openmoji.org/)](https://openmoji.org/))
* Sophia Batchelor + she/her + permanently exhausted pidgeon 
* Amefon Affia + Ultra-night owl üê≤
* Ceilidh Welsh +she/her + is it possible to be neither + üòÖ 
* Susana RG + she/her + early birdy + ü¶ú
* Bastian GT + he/him + according to my sleep tracker I'm a seal! ü¶≠
* Danny + they/them/he/him + "permanently exhausted pidgeon" üòÇ
* Esther + she/her + a bit of both!
* Jim Madge + he/him + Early bird
* Liz Hare she/her afternoon/early evening
* Richard Dushime + he/him + night owl 

## Advertise and promote your event or anything exciting you're working on. ‚ú® 

* Thinking about proposing a markdown flavour for protocols - inspired by the format of protocols.io - maybe some kind of extension to MyST (Richard J. Acton)
*  I am moderating this upcoming panel on "Queer Representations of AI", which I'm excited about: [https://www.sas.ac.uk/events/queer-representations-ai](https://www.sas.ac.uk/events/queer-representations-ai) (Kalle)
    * So cool!

## Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notes‚ú® 
While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it. 

If you like one of the topics that are already suggested, please add your name next to that one. For more information about breakout rooms see [the description on GitHub](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms).

* Main Room:
   *  1st pomodoro: Abasi-Amefon Affia joins to share an idea for a study about hackathons
      * What does this study look like?
      * Primarily interviews and different methods of learning more about the event, possibly taking pictures.
      * How do the dynamics change during the Book Dash?
      * Concerned more about the trust of the participants. What does your participation in the book dash look like? A lot of people have imposter syndrome, but people don't feel confident about their expertise. Want to make sure that the Book Dash is a safe space.
      * Would love to do that at this month.
      * Participating in all the pre-events could allow you to bring in.your pre-resarch, bringing in the breaks and sharing out on how it's going.
      * What  are "social" or "in-between time"?
      * We're remote first. The majority of the "coffee" or "in-between" times could be in physical room, but online we have specific "social sessions" throughout the day (including a show \& tell)
      * Explicit social sessions are key. And we also have an established slack channel. Slack is wher epeople can maintain these connections that allows people to keep in touch.
      * Asynchronous times part is really interesting, no perfect solution but we have tried a few ways and have a few different solutions that are close to optimised.
      * We have a lot of documentation too! [https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash.html](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash.html) 
      * Possibly can interview people during the week
   * 2nd pomodoro session: Book Dash planning chats
      * Skils teams members joining the Book Dash Committee
      * Book Dash Committee - have to start promoting the committee + hub applications
      * Do we want to send out invitations to join the committee?
   * 3rd pomodoro: Read the docs transition
      * It's done! Not sure how it works wiht translation
      * Some special things needed for sphinx configuration
      * Can we do deploy previews like Netlify? Yes. Can integrate.
      * Why RTD? Our philosophy has diverged. Enshittification of the platform
   * 4th pomodoro: Open room
* Breakout Room: Inclusive Events chapter/Accessibility Working Group
   * having a brief chat about the different ideas for how to separate out broader accessibility issues, PPIE specific bits and matbe a "missing" chapter with more details on "how to organise events" that moves beyond bullet points?
* Research in 2050
* Shout-out - Data Hazards Room
* Infrastructure Working Group
* Quiet coworking
* Extra Room 1
* Extra Room 2

## Link list‚ú® 

* Tunes for today:
    * Parcel's COLORS show: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJl-avjRgzU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJl-avjRgzU)
    * Other music by Parcels: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrp98BddP8Q](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrp98BddP8Q)
