**Title:** Capturing the ongoing process and workflow within _The Turing Way_ community

**Background:** _The Turing Way_ is an open-source, community-led and collaboratively developed book project on making data research accessible for a wider research community ([https://book.the-turing-way.org](https://book.the-turing-way.org)). We bring together individuals from diverse fields and expertise to develop practices and learning resources that can make data research comprehensible and useful for everyone. The project is openly developed and all questions, comments, recommendations and discussion are facilitated through an[ online GitHub repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way). Our community members are researchers, engineers, data librarians, industry professionals, and experts in various domains, at all levels of seniority, from all around the world. Since the project's launch in 2019, over 250 contributors have co-authored 140 chapters compiling best practices, tools and recommendations in data science. Our resources on reproducibility, project design, collaboration, communication and ethical research are used worldwide by thousands of researchers. 

**Problem:** As a community-developed project, _The Turing Way_ invites everyone willing to take part in the project to participate as per their interest and availability. Volunteers carry out tasks such as writing subchapters, adding new content in existing chapters, documenting case studies, giving talks and workshops, translating the book into different languages and guiding new members in their work. These efforts have grown organically and are being led by different individuals in a semi-independent manner. As a result, these processes are not well documented making it difficult for new community members to identify standards and recommended ways to work on the project.

**Project ideas:** We invite technical writers to help capture these unwritten norms, rules, workflows and tools to help maintain the accessibility in the project. This task will require connecting with different members in the community with the support of their mentors from _The Turing Way_, designing surveys, setting up short interview meetings (using video calls with live transcription), extracting qualitative information and adding them to the community handbook and different guides in the project. The technical writer will also have an opportunity to curate and organise _The Turing Way_ chapters to make it easy to navigate for different user groups.

**Optional technical reading: **_The Turing Way_ is hosted as a[ Jupyter Book](https://github.com/jupyter/jupyter-book/) at[ https://book.the-turing-way.org](https://book.the-turing-way.org). Jupyter Books can format markdown files and Jupyter notebooks as static HTML making them easy to read. When a notebook is included in the book, the static page includes a link to an interactive version of the notebook via[ Binder](https://mybinder.readthedocs.io). We are upgrading to the latest version of Jupyter book and intend to integrate more interactive features, which are currently underutilised. The translation efforts are supported through[ Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/theturingway/theturingway/dashboard/).

**Required skills**

-   Writing and editing skills in the English language
-   Experience working in distributed communities, ideally using git and GitHub
-   Experience working or collaborating in qualitative research projects at any level, such as designing, conducting and/or working with surveys and interview data

**Optional skills**

-   Data handling and/or analysis skills
-   Interactive visualisation or basic web-design skill
-   Experience working in community-oriented projects

**Possible mentors**

-   Malvika Sharan ([msharan@turing.ac.uk](mailto:msharan@turing.ac.uk))
-   Kirstie Whitaker, Paul Owoicho, Batool Almarzouq.

**Expected outcome:** An enhanced version of the community handbook that provides information to all our contributors, making their engagement in different parts of the project welcoming, accessible and beneficial. We hope to also offer editorial support in their contributions to the project.

**Difficulty level:** Medium if the candidate has prior experience of working with git and GitHub. However, resources and guidance will be provided by the mentors.

**Additional information**: Malvika Sharan and Kirstie Whitaker, members of The Turing Way team, have previously participated successfully in Google Season of Docs, with INCF in 2020, and Kirstie Whitaker has mentored several times in the Google Summer of Code. Paul Owoicho was a successful GSoD candidate from 2020 who had worked as a technical writer for The Turing Way and Batool Almarzouq is a core contributor to the community.
