book/website/collaboration/remote-collab/remote-collab-management.md, before:

(cl-remote-collab-manage-teams)=
# Managing Distributed Teams

In the {ref}`cl-new-community` and {ref}`Leadership in Data Science<cl-leadership>` chapters, we have already discussed in-depth how we can manage a new online community and build healthy leadership for a team.
Therefore, in this subchapter, we have listed a few reminders of tasks that are specifically important for managing distributed teams.

### Managing Team Members

- Set clear expectations for the team members about the project and their roles and responsibilities.
- Help establish all modes of communication, tools, and resources according to the team's requirements for both their project and social interactions.


### Access to Resources

It is important to assure that team members can easily access resources both for the collaboration sessions you will share and about the organisation's guidelines.

- Coordinate the development and maintenance of all the required documentation such as the organisation's policies, participation guidelines, project charter, and information of other team members.
- Ensure that details of these resources are available for all members through a central repository, with information on how they can access them.

- Before the meeting, provide the meeting agenda in a shared document, preferably that can be updated by the team members in case they want to suggest a new agenda point. This document can also be used for taking notes during the event.
- Share minutes (and video recording when possible) to make sure that everyone is up-to-date, even those who couldn't attend the meeting.


### Managing Different Work Settings

- Respect time differences when dealing with members across different time zones and assigning tasks. Allow a degree of flexibility as per their working situation or caring responsibilities they may have.
- Schedule team meetings where everyone can share what they are working on and invite contributions and support from others in the team.

- Schedule regular one-on-one meetings to ensure that your team members can check-in with you, align ideas as per the project's requirement, hold accountability for their work, and receive constructive feedback.
- Create opportunities for informal interactions that can help create a friendly work environment and build a strong sense of team spirit.
- Encourage and embrace diversity and a culture of collaboration.


### Tools
<!--
Moved from the "Tools for Remote Collaboration" subchapter"
-->

#### Task Management Tools

Every event has several stages of planning and organising that involve numerous tasks as discussed in earlier subchapters.
Therefore, it is important to track those tasks in an online event management tool, where the responsible individuals can see their to-dos and deadlines, and collaborate with others.

- [Trello](https://trello.com/): online kanban like tools to assign tasks and checklists to individual users and monitor their progress.
- [Asana](https://asana.com/): online kanban tool that can be used for creating different teams create tasks, set deadlines and send reminders.
- [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira): useful for large event teams to help them track tasks before, during, and after the event.
- [GitHub project board](https://github.com/features/project-management/): every repository on GitHub can have a project board where tasks can be issues and Pull Requests that can be coordinated, tracked, and updated transparently by all contributors.
- [notion.so](https://www.notion.so/): This is a high-level project management tool that allows storing reports, creating documents and integrate different tools.


#### Maintaining Shared Notes

<!--
Possible subcategories: storage; real-time collaboration; version control
-->

It is important to create shared notes, but also to save them to share with others and to make them available to refer back to later.

- [Google Drive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Drive): Google Drive is a file storage and synchronization service developed by Google.
- [DropBox](https://www.dropbox.com/): Dropbox is a file hosting service operated by the American company Dropbox.
- [owncloud](https://owncloud.com/): ownCloud is a suite of client-server software for creating and using file hosting services. ownCloud functionally has similarities to the widely used Dropbox.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/free-trial/) and [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/product): Platforms for hosting, sharing and collaborating on documents and software with a version control system (see [this post for detail/difference](https://stackshare.io/stackups/bitbucket-vs-github-vs-gitlab)).


## Further reading

- Read this post by Zapier on [How to Manage a Remote Team](https://zapier.com/learn/remote-work/how-manage-remote-team/)

Commit message:

Edited the text for better readability
I have tried to turn the bullet points structure into paragraphs and rearranged some of it as well. The tools section still needs some polishing.

book/website/collaboration/remote-collab/remote-collab-management.md, after:

(cl-remote-collab-manage-teams)=
# Managing Distributed Teams

In the {ref}`cl-new-community` and {ref}`Leadership in Data Science<cl-leadership>` chapters, we have already discussed in-depth how we can manage a new online community and build healthy leadership for a team.
Therefore, in this subchapter, we have listed a few reminders of tasks that are specifically important for managing distributed teams.


## Managing Team Members in Different Work Environments

When managing different people in a team, it is important to set clear expectations about the project and their roles and responsibilities.
All modes of communication, tools, and resources should ideally be established according to the team's requirements for both their project and social interactions.

Time differences can be challenging when assingning tasks to members across different time zones. Some guidelines are:
- Allow a degree of flexibility as per their working situation or caring responsibilities they may have.
- Schedule team meetings where everyone can share what they are working on and invite contributions and support from others in the team.

Create opportunities for informal interactions that can help create a friendly work environment and build a strong sense of team spirit.
Overall, encourage and embrace diversity and a culture of collaboration.

As far as one-on-one communication, regular meetings should be scheduled to ensure that your team members can check-in with you, align ideas as per the project's requirement, hold accountability for their work, and receive constructive feedback.


## Access to Shared Resources

It is important to assure that team members can easily access general documentation as well as any resources used in collaboration sessions you will be sharing.
That comprehends, for instance, the organisation's policies, participation guidelines, project charter, and information of other team members.
Details of these resources must be available for all members through a central repository, with information on how they can access them.
In order to keep team members updated, meeting agendas and minutes should be shared and maintained:
- Before the meeting, provide the agenda in a shared document, preferably that can be updated by the team members in case they want to suggest a new agenda point. This document can also be used for taking notes during the event.
- Share minutes (and video recording when possible) to make sure that everyone is up-to-date, even those who couldn't attend the meeting.


## Tools
<!--
Moved from the "Tools for Remote Collaboration" subchapter"
-->

### Task Management Tools

Every event has several stages of planning and organising that involve numerous tasks as discussed in earlier subchapters.
Therefore, it is important to track those tasks in an online event management tool, where the responsible individuals can see their to-dos and deadlines, and collaborate with others.

- [Trello](https://trello.com/): online kanban like tools to assign tasks and checklists to individual users and monitor their progress.
- [Asana](https://asana.com/): online kanban tool that can be used for creating different teams create tasks, set deadlines and send reminders.
- [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira): useful for large event teams to help them track tasks before, during, and after the event.
- [GitHub project board](https://github.com/features/project-management/): every repository on GitHub can have a project board where tasks can be issues and Pull Requests that can be coordinated, tracked, and updated transparently by all contributors.
- [notion.so](https://www.notion.so/): This is a high-level project management tool that allows storing reports, creating documents and integrate different tools.


### Maintaining Shared Notes

<!--
Possible subcategories: storage; real-time collaboration; version control
-->

It is important to create shared notes, but also to save them to share with others and to make them available to refer back to later.

- [Google Drive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Drive): Google Drive is a file storage and synchronization service developed by Google.
- [DropBox](https://www.dropbox.com/): Dropbox is a file hosting service operated by the American company Dropbox.
- [owncloud](https://owncloud.com/): ownCloud is a suite of client-server software for creating and using file hosting services. ownCloud functionally has similarities to the widely used Dropbox.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/free-trial/) and [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/product): Platforms for hosting, sharing and collaborating on documents and software with a version control system (see [this post for detail/difference](https://stackshare.io/stackups/bitbucket-vs-github-vs-gitlab)).


## Further reading

- Read this post by Zapier on [How to Manage a Remote Team](https://zapier.com/learn/remote-work/how-manage-remote-team/)
