book/website/reproducible-research/ci/ci-resources.md, before:

# Resources

## What to learn next

If you have not already read the testing chapter it is suggested to do so to learn more about the different kinds of tests and their benefits in order to make the most of CI.


## Definitions/glossary

**Build:** A group of jobs. For example, a build might have two jobs, each of which tests a project with a different version of a programming language. A build finishes when all of its jobs are finished.

**Computational environment:** The environment where a project is run, including the operating system, the software installed on it, and the versions of both.

**Continuous integration:** The process of regularly combining the work of project members into a centralised version. Also called CI. CI software typically runs tests on the integrated version of a project to identify conflicts and bugs introduced by the integration.

**GitHub:** A widely used version control platform.

**Job:** An automated process that clones your repository into a virtual environment and then carries out a series of phases such as compiling your code and running tests. A job fails if the return code of the script encounters an error.

**GitHub Actions:** It is a CI/CD service that runs on GitHub repos.

**Workflows** They are YAML files stored in the _.github/workflows_ directory of a repository.

**Action** It is a package you can import and use in your **workflow**. GitHub provides an **[Actions Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions)** to find actions to use in workflows.

**Job** It is a virtual machine that runs a series of **steps**. **Jobs** are parallelized by default, but **steps** are sequential by default.


## Bibliography

- [What is CI](https://github.com/travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com/blob/master/user/for-beginners.md) **MIT**
- [SSI blog](https://software.ac.uk/using-continuous-integration-build-and-test-your-software?_ga=2.231776223.1391442519.1547641475-1644026160.1541158284) **Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 2.5 License**
- [The difference between continuous integration, continuous deployment, and continuous delivery](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment) **Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.**
- [CI with python](https://docs.python-guide.org/scenarios/ci/) **Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported**
- [Info about how Travis works](https://github.com/travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com/blob/master/user/for-beginners.md) **MIT**

### Materials used: What is Github actions and how does it work?

- [GitHub Actions Cheat Sheet](https://resources.github.com/whitepapers/GitHub-Actions-Cheat-sheet/)
- [GitHub docs: Actions - Core concepts](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/getting-started-with-github-actions/core-concepts-for-github-actions)
- [GitHub docs: Actions - Configuring and managing workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows)


## Acknowledgements

Thanks to David Jones of the University of Sheffield RSE group for useful discussions.

Commit message:

fix toc and bibliography issue

book/website/reproducible-research/ci/ci-resources.md, after:

(rr-ci-resources)=
# Checklist and Resources

## Checklist

- Have a project that you collaborate on with at least one other person
- Put the project on GitHub
- Have project members regularly commit their work to this central repository
- That project should have at least some tests
- Write a `ci.yml` file which:
  - Must be inside `.github/workflows`
  - Define the name of the GitHub event that triggers the workflow using `on` key on the YMAL.
  - Defines a specific host machine on which to run the job using `jobs` and `runs-on`.
  - Includes code to install any dependencies required to run the project in a before_install step
  - Contains a script to run the project tests
- Commit the `ci.yml` file to the project's GitHub repository
- Each time a new commit is pushed Travis will run the tests and return the results. If these report that a commit causes test/tests to fail then find and fix the problem as soon as possible

## What to learn next

If you have not already read the testing chapter it is suggested to do so to learn more about the different kinds of tests and their benefits in order to make the most of CI.

## Definitions/glossary

**Build:** A group of jobs. For example, a build might have two jobs, each of which tests a project with a different version of a programming language. A build finishes when all of its jobs are finished.

**Computational environment:** The environment where a project is run, including the operating system, the software installed on it, and the versions of both.

**Continuous integration:** The process of regularly combining the work of project members into a centralised version. Also called CI. CI software typically runs tests on the integrated version of a project to identify conflicts and bugs introduced by the integration.

**GitHub:** A widely used version control platform.

**Job:** An automated process that clones your repository into a virtual environment and then carries out a series of phases such as compiling your code and running tests. A job fails if the return code of the script encounters an error.

**GitHub Actions:** It is a CI/CD service that runs on GitHub repos.

**Workflows** They are YAML files stored in the _.github/workflows_ directory of a repository.

**Action** It is a package you can import and use in your **workflow**. GitHub provides an **[Actions Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions)** to find actions to use in workflows.

**Job** It is a virtual machine that runs a series of **steps**. **Jobs** are parallelized by default, but **steps** are sequential by default.

## References

- [What is CI](https://github.com/travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com/blob/master/user/for-beginners.md) **MIT**
- [SSI blog](https://software.ac.uk/using-continuous-integration-build-and-test-your-software?_ga=2.231776223.1391442519.1547641475-1644026160.1541158284) **Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 2.5 License**
- [The difference between continuous integration, continuous deployment, and continuous delivery](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment) **Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.**
- [CI with python](https://docs.python-guide.org/scenarios/ci/) **Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported**
- [Info about how Travis works](https://github.com/travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com/blob/master/user/for-beginners.md) **MIT**

### Materials used: What is Github actions and how does it work?

- [GitHub Actions Cheat Sheet](https://resources.github.com/whitepapers/GitHub-Actions-Cheat-sheet/)
- [GitHub docs: Actions - Core concepts](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/getting-started-with-github-actions/core-concepts-for-github-actions)
- [GitHub docs: Actions - Configuring and managing workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows)

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to David Jones of the University of Sheffield RSE group for useful discussions.
