:pencil: Process of drafting a newsletter
---

1. **Starting a document for the newsletter**

    - You can start drafting the newsletter on a branch of _The Turing Way_ [GitHub repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/) within the appropriate directory (see the style guide).
    - You can work on your GitHub branch with the draft mode on and the [WIP] (work in progress) tag in your issue or pull request title.
    - Alternatively, you can use this HackMD (with the copy of template) to write your draft before you transfer them on a GitHub branch: https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/tw-newsletter

2. **Start collecting items for the newsletter as bullet points**

    - For community meetings, scan community calendar and GitHub issues for Collaboration Café, book dash, workshops or other meetings.
    - For news from the community, scan the Twitter account, recently merged pull requests for chapters, issue for newsletter item or ask in the Gitter chat room if someone would like to share something in the newsletter.
    - This is also the place to highlight any milestone for the project that was either established or achieved over the last month.
    - To collect relevant resources, scan the Twitter channel for any recent publication from the community members, resources for training or skill-building or any other materials like blog posts or articles published in the network.
    - Tips & Tricks for new contributors should include any resource from the project that can make new members learn ways to engage, identify ways to get started as contributors and find relatable contents like impact stories of other members, contributor's profiles or other community-related aspects.
    - Acknowledgments and celebrations section gives a shout-out to our members, celebrates news from members, and highlight tweets, other online mentions or post from recent meetings where someone talked about _The Turing Way_.
    - The newsletter should highlight only noteworthy content from _The Turing Way_ core members and focus more on the contributing and new members.

3. **Collect images associated with the news item**

    - Following the recommendations on style guide for using images, collect a few (zero to maximum 2 per section) images.
    - For the twitter mention, there is no set number limit but recommended to use unto 6 tweets in different panels of the same image (explained in the style guide).
    - Make sure that these images are available under a free license (like CC-BY), collected with the link of their sources, and named clearly as suggested in the style guide.

4. **Write about each news item**

    - Based on the bullet point collected for each header, create a small paragraph(s) for each news item using the recommendations in the style guide for the language and format.
    - Provide links when useful, give credit to the community members who might be associated with the news item and end the paragraph with a sentence and link to more information.

5. **Create a pull request (PR)**

    - Before opening your PR on the GitHub for review, make sure you have uploaded the linked images on GitHub repository in the appropriate folder within your branch (see the style guide for detail).
    - Run a quick grammar or typo check by an app like [Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com) and double-check that the links are not broken.
    - When ready, open the PR and tag a few contributing members, preferably those who have been mentioned in the draft so that they can review and approve your text.

6. **Review process**

    - The reviewers for the newsletter can review for language, typos, the relevance of the contents, appropriateness of the use of images and emojis, and the tone.
    - They can add constructive suggestions in the newsletter draft, add any missing item that they would like to highlight and approve the PR.
    - After the review process, each reviewer's name will be added under the special mentions section by the author.

:mailbox_with_mail: Publication process
---

We are currently using [TinyLetter](tinyletter.com/) to publish our newsletters.
TinyLetter is a subsidiary of [MailChimp](https://mailchimp.com/), that offers a simplified interface based free service for setting up an email newsletter and sharing it with subscribers.

- Take the newsletter draft and Convert the Markdown file to HTML using [browserling.com](https://www.browserling.com/tools/markdown-to-html) by copy-pasting the Markdown content to the text box in the web application and pressing "Convert to HTML button".
- Log in to the TinyLetter account and click the “Write A Newsletter” button.
Click the “Write A Newsletter” button and paste the HTML content of your draft generated by browserling.
_The Turing Way_ account in the TinyLetter is accessible by the project lead at the moment.
- Make sure that the subject is written in the correct text box.
- Click “Preview” to see how the rendered version of your message will look like. You can send a preview version to _The Turing Way_ email (theturingway@gmail.com) to check if everything looks OK.
- Once confirmed for its format and content, the newsletter is sent to the registered members by clicking “Send to all”.
- The [online newsletters](https://tinyletter.com/TuringWay/) are shareable by links and can be read by non-subscribed members as well.

*(Learn to make your newsletter [here](https://www.sitepoint.com/how-start-a-newsletter-in-minutes-with-tinyletter/).)*

 **It's published, now what?**:

- Update the index table in the [README.md file](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/communications/newsletters/README.md) with the details of the newly published newsletter.
- Tweet about it, tag [@turingway](https://twitter.com/turingway).
- Send a notification on [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way).
- Do a celebratory dance! (This is mandatory!) :dancers:
