book/website/project-design/project-design.md, before:

(pd)=
# Guide for Project Design

***This guide covers topics related to effective project planning and management.***

Before starting a project, data scientists need to understand what their research questions are, what are the possible outcomes, who are their users and target audience, what resources are available and what possible constraints exist in the project.
Project design starts with these crucial questions.
Then comes the planning.
The scoping of the project in terms of ethics and usability of their outcome, expected minimum viable product of this project, synergies with other projects, similarities or differences compared to other projects, a measure of success, and the overall impact of this project.
Project design also includes aspects such as time, budget, risks, expectations, people, resources and timeline management, and preregistration of statistical protocols.

```{figure} ../figures/project-design.jpg
---
name: project-design
alt: A group of people collaboratively developing a project plan by writing on a giant canvas with a giant pencil to signify its importance in our work
---
 _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

In this guide, we compile best practices and guidance on project designing by including different aspects of project management and agile development practices derived from academia and industry.
We hope you will learn from different case studies for small, mid-size, and large projects spanning both short-term and long-term plans.
If you are brave enough, your examples of failed projects will be incredibly valuable for understanding how to avoid making the same (totally understandable!) mistakes again.

When designing a team-based project, it is important to think about all the skills required for the project and the resources needed to access those skills.
With this in mind, we welcome chapters defining the requirements in a project in terms of up-skilling, supporting and improving accessibility of different stakeholders.
Check out our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to get involved.

Commit message:

format the main landing page for project design

book/website/project-design/project-design.md, after:

(pd)=
# Guide for Project Design

***This guide covers topics related to effective project planning and management.***

In this guide, we compile best practices and guidance for designing research projects by including different aspects of project management and (iterative) development practices derived from academia and industry.

Before starting a project, researchers should define the scope of their research by describing the main questions they aim to address through their work. 
This also includes defining the project goals, possible outcomes, resources requirements, people involved (collaborators, users and target audience) and possible constraints that should be considered from the start.
They can then describe the expected minimum viable product of their project, identify synergies with other projects (similarities as well as differences), the measure of success, and the overall impact they hope to achieve.
After addressing these crucial questions, they can begin planning the operational aspects of their project to ensure the ethical integrity and usability of their outcome. 

```{figure} ../figures/project-design.jpg
---
name: project-design
alt: A group of people collaboratively developing a project plan by writing on a giant canvas with a giant pencil to signify its importance in our work
---
 _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```
When designing a team-based project, it is important to think about all the skills required for the project and the resources needed to access those skills.
The project design also includes aspects such as timeline, budget, risks, expectations, resources for project management and preregistration of research protocols.
With these viewpoints, we welcome chapters defining the requirements in a project in terms of up-skilling, supporting and improving accessibility of different stakeholders.

We hope you will learn from different case studies for small, mid-size, and large projects spanning both short-term and long-term plans.
If you are brave enough, your examples of failed projects will be incredibly valuable for understanding how to avoid making the same (totally understandable!) mistakes again.

Check out our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to get involved.
