book/website/community-handbook/accessibility.md, before:

(ch-accessibility)=
# Accessibility

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research and data-driven processes, communities and events despite barriers for access as they relate to language, disability, and geography.

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation, and in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion. Examples of this may include the language used to communicate within a team (be that an international and/or interdisciplinary environment), access to computing infrastructure or institutional resources, internet connectivity needs, hiring and facilitating diverse teams, and more.

We aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility and access-related practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

Commit message:

Update accessibility chapter with a linked chapter with accessibility policy

book/website/community-handbook/accessibility.md, after:

(ch-accessibility)=
# Accessibility

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research and data-driven processes, communities and events despite barriers for access as they relate to language, disability, and geography.

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation, and in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion.
Examples of this may include the language used to communicate within a team (be that an international and/or interdisciplinary environment), access to computing infrastructure or institutional resources, internet connectivity needs, hiring and facilitating diverse teams, and more.

We aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual.
Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility and access-related practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

This chapter contains following subchapters with accessibility guidelines when participating _The Turing Way_ community and recommendations when writing chapters:
- {ref}`Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community<accessibility-policy>`
- {ref}`accessibility-event-organising`
- {ref}`accessibility-comms-platforms`
- {ref}`accessibility-alt-text`
