mental-health.md, before:

(sectioninitials-filename)=
# Chapter Title

> Labels (above headers) should follow the cross-referencing conventions described in the [Style Guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-crossref.html).
> Modify them based on the Guide your chapter belongs to and the name you give the file.

(sectioninitials-filename-prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites

>**Itemise other chapters in _The Turing Way_ or topics that readers should be familiar with to understand your chapter better.**
> Ensure that you link to those chapters using the [Style Guide's](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-crossref.html) cross referencing recommendations.
> If the topics are only available on the web, appropriately link to them too.
> Importance should either be `Helpful` or `Necessary`

> For each prerequisite, you should also provide an indication of the skill level readers should have to understand your chapter better
> Skill level can either be _beginner_, _intermediate_, or _advanced_.

| Prerequisite | Importance | Skill Level | Notes |
| -------------|----------|------|----|
| {ref}`Chapter <chapter-label>` | Helpful/Necessary | Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced | Any useful notes the reader should know |


(sectioninitials-filename-summary)=
## Summary

> **Write a brief overview of the content of your chapter.**
> Summaries should be concise, but also introduce all the sub-topics that your chapter will talk about.
> When you mention a sub-topic, link to the subchapter where you expand on the topic.
> See the Summary in the Open Research [chapter](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/open.html) for inspiration.

> Optionally, you can add an image that captures the gist of your chapter.
> For reference, you may reuse our images hosted on Zenodo [here](https://zenodo.org/record/3332808) and [here](https://zenodo.org/record/3695300).
> You may also use this collection of [royalty free images](https://www.manypixels.co/gallery/) hosted on ManyPixels.
> Recommendations for using figures in _The Turing Way_ can be found in the [Style Guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-figures.html).

(sectioninitials-filename-motivation)=
## Motivation and Background

> **Explain why readers should pay attention to this chapter.**
> For example, how can your chapter's content have a positive impact on your reader's data science project?
> Think about the reader demographic that would be interested in your chapter and tailor this section appropriately.
> Remember to cross-reference relevant subchapters using this directive: `{ref}Subchapter<sectioninitials-filename-subchaptername>`.

<!-- IMPORTANT!

- Use this template to create the landing page for your chapter

BEFORE YOU GO

- Have a look at the Style Guide and the Maintaining Consistency chapters to ensure that you have followed the relevant recommendations on
  - Labels and cross referencing
  - Using images
  - Latin abbreviations
  - References and citations

-->

Commit message:

Updated outline mental-health.md
Updating outline to base chapter on

mental-health.md, after:

(sectioninitials-filename)=
# Chapter Title

> Labels (above headers) should follow the cross-referencing conventions described in the [Style Guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-crossref.html).
> Modify them based on the Guide your chapter belongs to and the name you give the file.

(sectioninitials-filename-prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites

>**Itemise other chapters in _The Turing Way_ or topics that readers should be familiar with to understand your chapter better.**
> Ensure that you link to those chapters using the [Style Guide's](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-crossref.html) cross referencing recommendations.
> If the topics are only available on the web, appropriately link to them too.
> Importance should either be `Helpful` or `Necessary`

> For each prerequisite, you should also provide an indication of the skill level readers should have to understand your chapter better
> Skill level can either be _beginner_, _intermediate_, or _advanced_.

| Prerequisite | Importance | Skill Level | Notes |
| -------------|----------|------|----|
| {ref}`Chapter <chapter-label>` | Helpful/Necessary | Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced | Any useful notes the reader should know |


(sectioninitials-filename-summary)=
## Summary

> **Write a brief overview of the content of your chapter.**
> Summaries should be concise, but also introduce all the sub-topics that your chapter will talk about.
> When you mention a sub-topic, link to the subchapter where you expand on the topic.
> See the Summary in the Open Research [chapter](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/open.html) for inspiration.

> Optionally, you can add an image that captures the gist of your chapter.
> For reference, you may reuse our images hosted on Zenodo [here](https://zenodo.org/record/3332808) and [here](https://zenodo.org/record/3695300).
> You may also use this collection of [royalty free images](https://www.manypixels.co/gallery/) hosted on ManyPixels.
> Recommendations for using figures in _The Turing Way_ can be found in the [Style Guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style/style-figures.html).

**Updated summary of proposed chapter**

- Why is self care important. Mental health crisis in Research and data science.
- Mental health is health. (check inclusivity chaps?).
- Impostor syndrome. Continuous learning as a job.
- Self-management based on CBT, values and SMART goals.
- Learning to say no and prioritize your own time
- How to balance the professional and personal life
  - as a PhD student
  - as a parent
- Relaxing techniques that can be used at any moment: check resources list
- Supporting people around you
- Mentorship and project management styles as ways to keep tabs on mental health
- Mental health as a manager/organisatio

(sectioninitials-filename-motivation)=
## Motivation and Background

> **Explain why readers should pay attention to this chapter.**
> For example, how can your chapter's content have a positive impact on your reader's data science project?
> Think about the reader demographic that would be interested in your chapter and tailor this section appropriately.
> Remember to cross-reference relevant subchapters using this directive: `{ref}Subchapter<sectioninitials-filename-subchaptername>`.

<!-- IMPORTANT!

- Use this template to create the landing page for your chapter

BEFORE YOU GO

- Have a look at the Style Guide and the Maintaining Consistency chapters to ensure that you have followed the relevant recommendations on
  - Labels and cross referencing
  - Using images
  - Latin abbreviations
  - References and citations

-->
