ways_of_working.md, before:

# Project Members

This document provides details about the project members and contributors working (or previously worked) on _The Turing Way_ in a paid capacity, organisational agreement, in-kind contributions or grant proposal-based collaboration.
It further outlines expectations and responsibilities with regard to working on the project.

## Current Project Members

| Name | Role | Full-Time Equivalent (or %) on the project | Time period allocated to the project | Previous roles |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Kirstie Whitaker | PI | - | Oct 2018 - Present | - |
| Malvika Sharan | Co-lead investigator | - | Jul 2021 - Present | previously: Community manager, Jan 2020 - Jun 2021 (100%) |
| Emma Karoune | Community Manager | 5% | Jan 2021 - Present | - |
| Arron Lacey | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Achintya Rao | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Vicky Hellon | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Carlos Martinez-Ortiz | Netherlands eScience Center - RSE community manager | in-kind contribution | Feb 2020 - Present | - |
| Esther Plomp | Faculty of Applied Sciences at Delft University of Technology - Data Steward | in-kind contribution | Feb 2020 - Present | - |
| Sarah Gibson | 2i2c Open Source Infrastructure Engineer/JupyterHub Community Development | in-kind contribution | - | Prevously: Research Data Scientist, Nov 2018 - Aug 2021 (40%) |
| May Yong | Research Software Engineer | 40% | Oct 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Lydia France | Research Software Engineer | 50% | Oct 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Iain Stanson | Research Software Engineer | 30% | Nov 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Anna Krystalli | The Turing Way Code of Conduct report contact (ombudsperson) | - | Dec 2018 - Mar 2019 | Prevously: Research Software Engineer (10%) |

## Previous Project Members

| Name | Role | Full-Time Equivalent (or %) on the project | Time period allocated to the project |
|---|---|---|---|
| Paul Owoicho | Google Season of Docs - Technical Writer | 100% | Sep 2020 - Dec 2020 |
| Rachael Ainsworth | Research Associate | 100% | Apr 2019 - May 2019 |
| Rosie Higman | Research Data Librarian | 20% | Jan 2019 - Mar 2019 |
| Becky Arnold | Research Software Engineer | 100% | Dec 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Louise Bowler | Research Data Scientist | 40% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Patricia Herterich | Data Librarian | 40% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Alex Morley | Mozilla Fellow | in-kind contribution |  Nov 2018 - June 2019  |
| Martin O'Reilly | Principal Research Software Engineer | 10% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |

## Commitments

All The Turing Way project members commit to
- making the implicit explicit by documenting their work
- abiding by the Code of Conduct in all community platforms and spaces where they represent _The Turing Way_
- following the contribution guideline and keeping it up to date
- recording any new updates, exceptions or useful knowledge in project management and core documents needed to facilitate collaboration
- dedicating their time and expertise in fixing open issues either directly via GitHub or providing mentorship and support to community members and project contributors
- feedback on issues in open source software used throughout _The Turing Way_ by opening an issue _The Turing Way_ GitHub repo or other open source projects where this issue can be fixed
- documenting and sharing any conversation from closed spaces (such as email, Slack or 1:1 meeting) in a GitHub issue that could be useful for the community or community members in enabling their work in _The Turing Way_ 

## Communication

You can reach out to all members by tagging them on GitHub issues or Pull Requests or on [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/theturingway/shared_invite/zt-fn608gvb-h_ZSpoA29cCdUwR~TIqpBw).

You can reach the lead investigators of the project through their preferred way of communication:
- You can mention Malvika Sharan (@malvikasharan) and Kirstie Whitaker (@KirstieJane) on a Github issue or pull request, or tag in Slack.

In addition, you can reach _The Turing Way_ by email (managed by the community manager): theturingway@gmail.com. 
You can also contact Malvika by emailing [msharan@turing.ac.uk](mailto:msharan@turing.ac.uk).

You can join the project members and the wider Turing Way community at our twice-monthly [Collaboration Cafes](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html), which are great places to discuss ideas for new contributions and to get started with making them. :rocket:

You can watch talks, presentations and recordings from different events on our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPDxZv5BMzAw0mPobCbMNuA).

## Project management

The project members triage on open issues, review Pull Requests or address any questions raised on GitHub asynchronously.
As most members do not work full time on the _Turing Way_, it might take some time until your query or contribution is addressed - especially if expert knowledge is needed. Don't be afraid to nudge if they've not replied after a few days! :sparkling_heart:

### Issues & Pull Requests

Project members will:
- monitor open issues and Pull Requests on the project's GitHub repository to identify if feedback, comment or connections can help address any concern or build on any suggested ideas/features.
- whenever possible, post about the issues and Pull Requests in public forums (newsletter, Slack, Twitter) to facilitate participation from new members in the community.
- review or assign a reviewer to open Pull Requests for review. This should be taken as an opportunity to connect contributors with specific interests, availability or technical skills that could be useful for the ongoing work.
- connect issues and Pull Requests where possible (for example, by mentioning 'Fixes #[issue number]' in the Pull Request description). By adding "closes #issue" or [something similar](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/) in a comment on a pull request, merging the pull request will close the issue automatically.
- once completed, approve Pull Requests (for the contributors to merge them) and/or close issues immediately (if not linked to specific Pull Request) with a comment describing how it was addressed. 
- when reviewing a pull request or commenting on issues, be specific, describe your ideas clearly, comment to request changes or make a pull request to the file that should be merged (please do not use the "request changes" option when reviewing Pull Requests).
- use your interactions on GitHub or other community spaces to provide support, mentorship and acknowledgement to our community of contributors.

Commit message:

add a senetence on previous members

ways_of_working.md, after:

# Project Members

This document provides details about the project members and contributors working (or previously worked) on _The Turing Way_ in a paid capacity, organisational agreement, in-kind contributions or grant proposal-based collaboration.
It further outlines expectations and responsibilities with regard to working on the project.

## Current Project Members

| Name | Role | Full-Time Equivalent (or %) on the project | Time period allocated to the project | Previous roles |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Kirstie Whitaker | PI | - | Oct 2018 - Present | - |
| Malvika Sharan | Co-lead investigator | - | Jul 2021 - Present | previously: Community manager, Jan 2020 - Jun 2021 (100%) |
| Emma Karoune | Community Manager | 5% | Jan 2021 - Present | - |
| Arron Lacey | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Achintya Rao | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Vicky Hellon | Community Manager | 10% | Nov 2021 - Present | - |
| Carlos Martinez-Ortiz | Netherlands eScience Center - RSE community manager | in-kind contribution | Feb 2020 - Present | - |
| Esther Plomp | Faculty of Applied Sciences at Delft University of Technology - Data Steward | in-kind contribution | Feb 2020 - Present | - |
| Sarah Gibson | 2i2c Open Source Infrastructure Engineer/JupyterHub Community Development | in-kind contribution | - | Prevously: Research Data Scientist, Nov 2018 - Aug 2021 (40%) |
| May Yong | Research Software Engineer | 40% | Oct 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Lydia France | Research Software Engineer | 50% | Oct 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Iain Stanson | Research Software Engineer | 30% | Nov 2021 - Dec 2021 | - |
| Anna Krystalli | The Turing Way Code of Conduct report contact (ombudsperson) | - | Dec 2018 - Mar 2019 | Prevously: Research Software Engineer (10%) |

## Previous Project Members

The following people are no longer paid to work on the project (although they remain very valuable members of the community!)
You can request contact information through the project members above, or tag them in the GitHub issues and Pull Requests so others can answer if the folks you're looking for are not around.

| Name | Role | Full-Time Equivalent (or %) on the project | Time period allocated to the project |
|---|---|---|---|
| Paul Owoicho | Google Season of Docs - Technical Writer | 100% | Sep 2020 - Dec 2020 |
| Rachael Ainsworth | Research Associate | 100% | Apr 2019 - May 2019 |
| Rosie Higman | Research Data Librarian | 20% | Jan 2019 - Mar 2019 |
| Becky Arnold | Research Software Engineer | 100% | Dec 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Louise Bowler | Research Data Scientist | 40% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Patricia Herterich | Data Librarian | 40% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |
| Alex Morley | Mozilla Fellow | in-kind contribution |  Nov 2018 - June 2019  |
| Martin O'Reilly | Principal Research Software Engineer | 10% | Nov 2018 - Mar 2019 |

## Commitments

All The Turing Way project members commit to
- making the implicit explicit by documenting their work
- abiding by the Code of Conduct in all community platforms and spaces where they represent _The Turing Way_
- following the contribution guideline and keeping it up to date
- recording any new updates, exceptions or useful knowledge in project management and core documents needed to facilitate collaboration
- dedicating their time and expertise in fixing open issues either directly via GitHub or providing mentorship and support to community members and project contributors
- feedback on issues in open source software used throughout _The Turing Way_ by opening an issue _The Turing Way_ GitHub repo or other open source projects where this issue can be fixed
- documenting and sharing any conversation from closed spaces (such as email, Slack or 1:1 meeting) in a GitHub issue that could be useful for the community or community members in enabling their work in _The Turing Way_ 

## Communication

You can reach out to all members by tagging them on GitHub issues or Pull Requests or on [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/theturingway/shared_invite/zt-fn608gvb-h_ZSpoA29cCdUwR~TIqpBw).

You can reach the lead investigators of the project through their preferred way of communication:
- You can mention Malvika Sharan (@malvikasharan) and Kirstie Whitaker (@KirstieJane) on a Github issue or pull request, or tag in Slack.

In addition, you can reach _The Turing Way_ by email (managed by the community manager): theturingway@gmail.com. 
You can also contact Malvika by emailing [msharan@turing.ac.uk](mailto:msharan@turing.ac.uk).

You can join the project members and the wider Turing Way community at our twice-monthly [Collaboration Cafes](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html), which are great places to discuss ideas for new contributions and to get started with making them. :rocket:

You can watch talks, presentations and recordings from different events on our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPDxZv5BMzAw0mPobCbMNuA).

## Project management

The project members triage on open issues, review Pull Requests or address any questions raised on GitHub asynchronously.
As most members do not work full time on the _Turing Way_, it might take some time until your query or contribution is addressed - especially if expert knowledge is needed. Don't be afraid to nudge if they've not replied after a few days! :sparkling_heart:

### Issues & Pull Requests

Project members will:
- monitor open issues and Pull Requests on the project's GitHub repository to identify if feedback, comment or connections can help address any concern or build on any suggested ideas/features.
- whenever possible, post about the issues and Pull Requests in public forums (newsletter, Slack, Twitter) to facilitate participation from new members in the community.
- review or assign a reviewer to open Pull Requests for review. This should be taken as an opportunity to connect contributors with specific interests, availability or technical skills that could be useful for the ongoing work.
- connect issues and Pull Requests where possible (for example, by mentioning 'Fixes #[issue number]' in the Pull Request description). By adding "closes #issue" or [something similar](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/) in a comment on a pull request, merging the pull request will close the issue automatically.
- once completed, approve Pull Requests (for the contributors to merge them) and/or close issues immediately (if not linked to specific Pull Request) with a comment describing how it was addressed. 
- when reviewing a pull request or commenting on issues, be specific, describe your ideas clearly, comment to request changes or make a pull request to the file that should be merged (please do not use the "request changes" option when reviewing Pull Requests).
- use your interactions on GitHub or other community spaces to provide support, mentorship and acknowledgement to our community of contributors.
