book/website/collaboration/github-novice/github-novice-advanced.md, before:

(cl-github-novice-advanced)=
# Advanced Github features

## More collaboration
You can add collaborators to your project and learn how to use branches, pull requests and merges to aid collaborative work.
Take a look at the next chapter on 'Collaborating on Github' for more information on how to do this.

## Try turning your project into a web page
Your Github repo can be turned into a web page for your project by enabling Github pages in the settings.
You can customise the web pages using one of the templates in Github or you can choose your own jekyll theme.

This resource - [Github for collaborative documentation](https://cassgvp.github.io/github-for-collaborative-documentation/) - has a step-by-step guide of how to make Github pages.

## Link this repository with an online platform such as Open Science Framework
To make an open workflow linking all of the tools that you use, an online platform is needed.
Open Science Framework enables researchers to add on many different tools such as Dropbox, Github and Google workspace.
It is like a one-stop shop for all your project work.
Here is a link to why you might want to use [Open Science Framework](https://www.cos.io/blog/5-ways-to-optimize-your-research-workflow-with-osf).

Commit message:

add new advanced github features (publication options)

book/website/collaboration/github-novice/github-novice-advanced.md, after:

(cl-github-novice-advanced)=
# Advanced GitHub features
## More collaboration
GitHub makes it easy to collaborate and create and manage teams.
You can add collaborators to your organization or project and manage permissions using the Teams settings.
Branches, pull requests and merges further facilitate streamlined, version-controlled, collaborative work.
Take a look at the next chapter on {ref}`Maintainers and Reviewers on GitHub<cl-maintain-review>` for more information on how to use these features.

## Turn your project into a web page
Your GitHub repo can be turned into a web page for your project by enabling GitHub pages in the settings.
You can customise the web pages using one of the templates in GitHub or you can choose your own [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) theme.

This resource - [GitHub for collaborative documentation](https://cassgvp.github.io/github-for-collaborative-documentation/) - has a [step-by-step guide](https://cassgvp.github.io/github-for-collaborative-documentation/docs/tut/4-2-Make-your-Pages-site.html) of how to make GitHub pages.

## Link this repository with an online platform

### Open Science Framework
[Open Science Framework]() is an online platform that enables researchers to link many different tools - such as Dropbox, GitHub and Google workspace - to create a completely open workflow.
It is like a one-stop shop for all your project work.
Here is a link to why you might want to use [Open Science Framework](https://www.cos.io/blog/5-ways-to-optimize-your-research-workflow-with-osf).

### Code/repository publications
Making your code citeable is an important part of open science.
Several platforms are well integrated with GitHub, reducing friction for creating versioned releases and publishing peer-reviewed software.
- [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/) allows you to easily (and automatically, once you've set it up and linked it to your repository) create version-specific and tool-concept level digital object identifiers (DOIs). This makes it easier for you and your users to cite your software, including the version used in a workflow, with unique DOIs.
- [Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org/) is an open access, peer-reviewed journal for publishing research software packages. Document the effort involved in developing robust software (including testing and documentation) with a peer-reviewed publication.
