# Data Preparation 

Considerations of the data suitability, readiness and collection should begin at the time of project proposal development. If the data is unsuitable, incomplete or won't be ready in time then the whole project could be compromised. Data preparation should begin as soon as the project question is finalised. 

Initial data readiness will be different for every project. In cases the data may not exist and a method of collection will be the first action. In other cases, pre-curated data sets may be used with the key action being obtaining use rights. 

Data is research ready when it has been collected, constructed, cleaned, checked for gaps, when potential sensitivities have been considered (and mitigated against) and you have the right to use and work on the datasets. 

## Key Considerations 

* Data Readiness : If the data doesn't yet exist, method of collection must be devised. If the raw data exists but it has yet to be curated for purpose, methodology for this must be established. If the data is nearly ready, then it must be checked for gaps and cleanliness. 
* Data Appropriateness : Data should be highly relevant to the research question. Even if data looks to be suitable, there may be additional sets or resources that already exist that can enrich and improve the scope of research. 
* Data Quantity : Data must be large enough to effectively run analysis and experimentation, if not enough data point exists, a method of generating more should be pursued. This could be by obtaining complimentary data sets or generating synthetic or collecting new data. Equally, researchers may be faced with an abundance of data, so much that meaningful analysis becomes hard. In such cases researchers may need to edit and refine what data will be used. 
* Data Sensitivity : How sensitive is the data that will be used? The more sensitive the data set it, the more restrictions will be needed to protect it during the research phase which inhibits researchers ease of access and experiment. If the data contains personal information or sensitive commercial information then it is likely to be highly sensitive. In such cases it may be possible to reduce the sensitivity of the data by either removing or anonymising areas of interest. Even if the data is not especially sensitive, the project as a whole may produce sensitive results, so it may be worth taking the same measures to reduce sensitivity as much as possible, reducing the security measures that will be necessary and minimising negative implications of a data breach. 
* Data Completeness/ Reliability : The data should be checked for missing observations and unreliable data points. Any incompleteness or unreliability must be assessed as to its impact on the project and what can be done to minimise missing values and maximise overall reliability. 
* Data Permissions / Legal Considerations : It is essential that you have the right to use the data. If data has been generated in house and involves no human data, than this may not be necessary. However, in many cases the data will  come from a collaborator or from a third party data provider. In these cases, at minimum a data sharing agreement should be enacted so that both parties are protected. Depending on organisations, this may be a straight forward process, or may take many iterations and discussion with legal teams. Data sharing agreements should therefore be discussed from the get go and be one of the first actions when considering data preparation. If the data contains personal information, such as patient data, then you must be able to prove that the subjects have consented for their data to be collected and used. 
