conferences/README.md, before:

# Conferences

This directory contains [abstracts](abstracts) and [presentations](presentations) about *The Turing Way* at external events.

All the materials are CC-BY (unless otherwise stated).

If you have told anyone about the project and would like to share the resources you presented, please submit a pull request to this folder.

THANK YOU to every member of the community who spreads the word! :sparkling_heart: :rocket: :star2:

| Event | Date | Abstract | Presentation | DOI |
|:----- |:---- |:-------- |:------------ |:--- |
| Cambridge Psychiatry PI Day | 30 January 2019 |  | [Whitaker_CamPsychiatryPIDay.pdf](presentations/CambridgePsychiatry_PIDay_20190130/Whitaker_CamPsychiatryPIDay_TheTuringWay_Jan2019.pdf)<br>(File name shortened for better readability) | [10.6084/m9.figshare.7649156](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7649156)
| [UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | [UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md](abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) | [UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12.md](presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)
| Birmingham Hacker Within meeting | 18 February 2019 |  | [TuringWay_HackerWithin.pdf](presentations/Bham_HackerWithin/TuringWay_HackerWithin.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2566430](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2566430) |
| Turing Health Conference | 8 March 2019 | | [Whitaker_TuringHealthConf_March2019.pdf](presentations/TuringHealthConference_20190308/Whitaker_TuringHealthConf_March2019.pdf) | [10.6084/m9.figshare.7819442](http://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7819442.v1)
| Talk at MRC-BSU | 20 March 2019 | | [Whitaker_MRCBSU.pdf](presentations/MRCBSU_20190320/Whitaker_MRCBSU_TheTuringWay_March2019.pdf)<br>(File name shortened for better readability) | [10.5281/zenodo.2599904](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2599904)
| [Tools, Practices and Systems Scoping Workshop](https://www.turing.ac.uk/events/tools-practices-and-systems-data-science-and-artificial-intelligence-scoping-workshop) | 21 March 2019 | | [TuringWayPoster_TPSScopingWorkshop.pdf](presentations/TPS_ScopingWorkshop_20190321/Whitaker_TuringWayPoster_TPSScopingWorkshop.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2598546](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2598546) |
| [HPC@Sheffield](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/cics/hpc-sheffield) | 8 April 2019 | | [Arnold_Krystalli_HPC_at_Sheffield.pdf](presentations/HPC_at_Sheffield_20190408/Arnold_Krystalli_HPC_at_Sheffield_April2019.pdf) <br>(File name shortened for better readability) | |
| [csv,conf,v4](https://csvconf.com) | 8 & 9 May 2019 | | [Whitaker_CSVconf_May2019.pdf](presentations/csvconf_20190509/Whitaker_CSVconf_May2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2669548](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2669548) |
| [Software Citation Workshop](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/software-citation-workshop-tickets-59519083180) | 13 & 14 May 2019 | | [Whitaker_SoftwareCitation_May2019.pdf](presentations/SoftwareCitationWorkshop_20190513/Whitaker_SoftwareCitation_May2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2783998](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2783998) |
| [Future-proofing your research: Moving Towards Open & Reproducible Research](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/future-proofing-your-research-moving-towards-open-reproducible-research-tickets-60575376582?aff=eac2) | 4 June 2019 | | [Whitaker_ORLancaster_June2019.pdf](presentations/ORLancaster_20190604/Whitaker_ORLancaster_June2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.3238189](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3238189) |
| [LIBER Conference 2019](https://liberconference.eu/2019-presentations/) | 26 -28 June 2019 | [LIBER_submission.md](conferences/abstracts/LIBER-submission.md) | | [10.5281/zenodo.3250174](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3250174)|
| [UCL IHI Code Club Launch Event](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/ucl-ihi-code-club-launch-event-tickets-64423956789) | 10 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3292461](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3292461) |
| [PyData London 2019](https://pydata.org/london2019/) | 12 - 14 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3333760](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3333760) |
| HDR UK Reproducible Machine Learning Workshop | 23 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3346767](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3346767) |
| [MQ Mental Health Data Science Meeting](https://www.mqmentalhealth.org/articles/data-science-meeting-2019-agenda) | 9 September 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3402510](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3402510) |
| [Open Science Fair 2019](https://www.opensciencefair.eu/) | 16-18 September 2019 | [OSF19_Poster_submission.md](abstracts/OSF19_Poster_submission.md), [OSF19_Demo_submission.md](abstracts/OSF19_Demo_submission.md) | [Ainsworth_TuringWayPoster_OSF19_small.pdf](presentations/OpenScienceFair_20190916/Ainsworth_TuringWayPoster_OSF19_small.pdf), [Ainsworth_TuringWayDemo_OSF19_small.pdf](presentations/OpenScienceFair_20190916/Ainsworth_TuringWayDemo_OSF19_small.pdf) | Poster: [10.5281/zenodo.3381446](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3381446), Demo: [10.5281/zenodo.3403161](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3403161), [Podcast recording of demo](https://orionopenscience.podbean.com/e/the-fair-is-in-town-figshare-the-turing-way-and-open-science-quest-at-the-osfair2019/) (starts at 5:13) |
| [RSE Con UK 2019](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | [RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md](abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) | [SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_lightning.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_lightning.pdf) [SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_Intro.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_Intro.pdf) [SGibson_RSEConUK19_RSEWorldwide.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_RSEWorldwide.pdf) | BinderHub: [10.5281/zenodo.3404774](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3404774), RSE Worldwide: [10.5281/zenodo.3377380](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3377380) |
| Training for Turing doctoral and induction students | 25 September 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3460330](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3460330) |
| [PyData Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-Cambridge-Meetup/) | 29 January 2020 | [pydata_cam_abstract.md](abstracts/pydata_cam_abstract.md) | [pydata_cam_slides.pdf](presentations/pydata_cam_slides.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.3628296](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3628296) |
| [Turing Data Science Perspectives conference at Newcastle](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/data-science-perspectives-phd-conference-registration-79365276679) | 10-11 March 2020 | [2020-03-DataSciencePerspectivesConference.md](./abstracts/2020-03-DataSciencePerspectivesConference.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3706577](https://zenodo.org/record/3706577) | [10.5281/zenodo.3706577](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3706577) |
| [Collaboration Workshop 2020](https://www.software.ac.uk/cw20) | 31 March - 2 April 2020 | [2020-04-CW20.md](./abstracts/2020-04-CW20.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [2020 Women in Data Science, IBM Code Bristol, Jean Golding Institute, University of Bristol](https://bristol.ac.uk/golding/events/2020/women-in-data-science.html) | 12 May 2020 | [2020-05-WiDS-IBM.md](./abstracts/2020-05-WiDS-IBM.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [CogX 2020](https://cogx.co/) | 8-10 June 2020 | [2020-06-CogX.md](./abstracts/2020-06-CogX.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [The Turing Way-UKDRI workshop on Boost your reproducibility with Binder](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/workshop-boost-research-reproducibility-with-binder-registration-105228216428) | 11 June 2020 | [Shared notes](https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/BinderJune2020) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3974948](https://zenodo.org/record/3974948) | [10.5281/zenodo.3974948](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3974948) |
| [The Turing Tools, Practices and Systems Research programme's seminar, June 2020](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-programmes/tools-practices-and-systems) | 24 June 2020 | [2020-06-TPS-OLS2-for-Turing.md](./abstracts/2020-06-TPS-OLS2-for-Turing.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3906219](https://zenodo.org/record/3906219) | [10.5281/zenodo.3906219](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3906219) |
| [Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder workshop at EANBiT Virtual Training 2020](http://eanbit.icipe.org/) | 10 July 2020 | [Shared notes](https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/BinderJuly2020) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3974919](https://zenodo.org/record/3974919) | [10.5281/zenodo.3974919](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3974919) |
| [Open Science Seminar at EANBiT Virtual Training 2020](http://eanbit.icipe.org/) | 29 July 2020 | [2020-07-EANBiT-icipe.md](./abstracts/2020-07-EANBiT-icipe.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3968440](https://zenodo.org/record/3968440) | [10.5281/zenodo.3968440](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3968440) |
| [MIT Experiential Ethics Class 2020](http://news.mit.edu/2020/infusing-ethics-experiential-learning-0508) | 29 July 2020 | [2020-07-MIT-Experiential-Ethics.md](./abstracts/2020-07-MIT-Experiential-Ethics.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3968454](https://zenodo.org/record/3968454) | [10.5281/zenodo.3968454](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3968454) |
| [FSCI2020 Lightening Talk](https://www.force11.org/fsci/2020) | 3 August 2020 | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179) | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179) | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179)) |
| [CarpentryConnect @ Home 2020](https://2020.carpentrycon.org/) | 7 August 2020 | [2020-08-CarpentryCon-at-home-lightning.md](./abstracts/2020-08-CarpentryCon-at-home-lightning.md) | [TBA](https://zenodo.org/record/TBA) | [TBA](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.TBA) |
| [ACM FAccT Conference 2021](https://facctconference.org/2021/cfw.html) | 3-10 March 2021 | [https://zenodo.org/record/4420152#.X_S-VeAaT1w](https://zenodo.org/record/4420152#.X_S-VeAaT1w) | Awaiting acceptance/rejection
| [RightsCon2021](https://www.rightscon.org/program/) | 7-11 June 2021 | [2021-01-RightsCon.md](./abstracts/2021-01-RightsCon.md) | Not yet submitted (deadline is 26 Jan 2021)
| [Saudi Data Community](https://www.datacommunitysa.com/home/) | 17 Feb 2021 | ["An Open Science Approach to Machine Learning in Biomedical Research"](https://github.com/BatoolMM/An-Open-Science-Approach-to-Machine-Learning) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4557637](https://zenodo.org/record/4557637) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4557637)](https://zenodo.org/record/4557637)) |

Commit message:

add WiDs2021 workshop "Collaborating on Open Data Science Projects"

conferences/README.md, after:

# Conferences

This directory contains [abstracts](abstracts) and [presentations](presentations) about *The Turing Way* at external events.

All the materials are CC-BY (unless otherwise stated).

If you have told anyone about the project and would like to share the resources you presented, please submit a pull request to this folder.

THANK YOU to every member of the community who spreads the word! :sparkling_heart: :rocket: :star2:

| Event | Date | Abstract | Presentation | DOI |
|:----- |:---- |:-------- |:------------ |:--- |
| Cambridge Psychiatry PI Day | 30 January 2019 |  | [Whitaker_CamPsychiatryPIDay.pdf](presentations/CambridgePsychiatry_PIDay_20190130/Whitaker_CamPsychiatryPIDay_TheTuringWay_Jan2019.pdf)<br>(File name shortened for better readability) | [10.6084/m9.figshare.7649156](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7649156)
| [UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | [UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md](abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) | [UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12.md](presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)
| Birmingham Hacker Within meeting | 18 February 2019 |  | [TuringWay_HackerWithin.pdf](presentations/Bham_HackerWithin/TuringWay_HackerWithin.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2566430](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2566430) |
| Turing Health Conference | 8 March 2019 | | [Whitaker_TuringHealthConf_March2019.pdf](presentations/TuringHealthConference_20190308/Whitaker_TuringHealthConf_March2019.pdf) | [10.6084/m9.figshare.7819442](http://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7819442.v1)
| Talk at MRC-BSU | 20 March 2019 | | [Whitaker_MRCBSU.pdf](presentations/MRCBSU_20190320/Whitaker_MRCBSU_TheTuringWay_March2019.pdf)<br>(File name shortened for better readability) | [10.5281/zenodo.2599904](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2599904)
| [Tools, Practices and Systems Scoping Workshop](https://www.turing.ac.uk/events/tools-practices-and-systems-data-science-and-artificial-intelligence-scoping-workshop) | 21 March 2019 | | [TuringWayPoster_TPSScopingWorkshop.pdf](presentations/TPS_ScopingWorkshop_20190321/Whitaker_TuringWayPoster_TPSScopingWorkshop.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2598546](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2598546) |
| [HPC@Sheffield](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/cics/hpc-sheffield) | 8 April 2019 | | [Arnold_Krystalli_HPC_at_Sheffield.pdf](presentations/HPC_at_Sheffield_20190408/Arnold_Krystalli_HPC_at_Sheffield_April2019.pdf) <br>(File name shortened for better readability) | |
| [csv,conf,v4](https://csvconf.com) | 8 & 9 May 2019 | | [Whitaker_CSVconf_May2019.pdf](presentations/csvconf_20190509/Whitaker_CSVconf_May2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2669548](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2669548) |
| [Software Citation Workshop](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/software-citation-workshop-tickets-59519083180) | 13 & 14 May 2019 | | [Whitaker_SoftwareCitation_May2019.pdf](presentations/SoftwareCitationWorkshop_20190513/Whitaker_SoftwareCitation_May2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.2783998](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2783998) |
| [Future-proofing your research: Moving Towards Open & Reproducible Research](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/future-proofing-your-research-moving-towards-open-reproducible-research-tickets-60575376582?aff=eac2) | 4 June 2019 | | [Whitaker_ORLancaster_June2019.pdf](presentations/ORLancaster_20190604/Whitaker_ORLancaster_June2019.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.3238189](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3238189) |
| [LIBER Conference 2019](https://liberconference.eu/2019-presentations/) | 26 -28 June 2019 | [LIBER_submission.md](conferences/abstracts/LIBER-submission.md) | | [10.5281/zenodo.3250174](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3250174)|
| [UCL IHI Code Club Launch Event](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/ucl-ihi-code-club-launch-event-tickets-64423956789) | 10 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3292461](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3292461) |
| [PyData London 2019](https://pydata.org/london2019/) | 12 - 14 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3333760](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3333760) |
| HDR UK Reproducible Machine Learning Workshop | 23 July 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3346767](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3346767) |
| [MQ Mental Health Data Science Meeting](https://www.mqmentalhealth.org/articles/data-science-meeting-2019-agenda) | 9 September 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3402510](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3402510) |
| [Open Science Fair 2019](https://www.opensciencefair.eu/) | 16-18 September 2019 | [OSF19_Poster_submission.md](abstracts/OSF19_Poster_submission.md), [OSF19_Demo_submission.md](abstracts/OSF19_Demo_submission.md) | [Ainsworth_TuringWayPoster_OSF19_small.pdf](presentations/OpenScienceFair_20190916/Ainsworth_TuringWayPoster_OSF19_small.pdf), [Ainsworth_TuringWayDemo_OSF19_small.pdf](presentations/OpenScienceFair_20190916/Ainsworth_TuringWayDemo_OSF19_small.pdf) | Poster: [10.5281/zenodo.3381446](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3381446), Demo: [10.5281/zenodo.3403161](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3403161), [Podcast recording of demo](https://orionopenscience.podbean.com/e/the-fair-is-in-town-figshare-the-turing-way-and-open-science-quest-at-the-osfair2019/) (starts at 5:13) |
| [RSE Con UK 2019](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | [RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md](abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) | [SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_lightning.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_lightning.pdf) [SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_Intro.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_BuildABinderHub_Intro.pdf) [SGibson_RSEConUK19_RSEWorldwide.pdf](presentations/RSEConUK2019/SGibson_RSEConUK19_RSEWorldwide.pdf) | BinderHub: [10.5281/zenodo.3404774](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3404774), RSE Worldwide: [10.5281/zenodo.3377380](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3377380) |
| Training for Turing doctoral and induction students | 25 September 2019 | | | [10.5281/zenodo.3460330](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3460330) |
| [PyData Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-Cambridge-Meetup/) | 29 January 2020 | [pydata_cam_abstract.md](abstracts/pydata_cam_abstract.md) | [pydata_cam_slides.pdf](presentations/pydata_cam_slides.pdf) | [10.5281/zenodo.3628296](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3628296) |
| [Turing Data Science Perspectives conference at Newcastle](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/data-science-perspectives-phd-conference-registration-79365276679) | 10-11 March 2020 | [2020-03-DataSciencePerspectivesConference.md](./abstracts/2020-03-DataSciencePerspectivesConference.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3706577](https://zenodo.org/record/3706577) | [10.5281/zenodo.3706577](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3706577) |
| [Collaboration Workshop 2020](https://www.software.ac.uk/cw20) | 31 March - 2 April 2020 | [2020-04-CW20.md](./abstracts/2020-04-CW20.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [2020 Women in Data Science, IBM Code Bristol, Jean Golding Institute, University of Bristol](https://bristol.ac.uk/golding/events/2020/women-in-data-science.html) | 12 May 2020 | [2020-05-WiDS-IBM.md](./abstracts/2020-05-WiDS-IBM.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [CogX 2020](https://cogx.co/) | 8-10 June 2020 | [2020-06-CogX.md](./abstracts/2020-06-CogX.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3745008](https://zenodo.org/record/3745008) | [10.5281/zenodo.3745008](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3745008) |
| [The Turing Way-UKDRI workshop on Boost your reproducibility with Binder](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/workshop-boost-research-reproducibility-with-binder-registration-105228216428) | 11 June 2020 | [Shared notes](https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/BinderJune2020) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3974948](https://zenodo.org/record/3974948) | [10.5281/zenodo.3974948](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3974948) |
| [The Turing Tools, Practices and Systems Research programme's seminar, June 2020](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-programmes/tools-practices-and-systems) | 24 June 2020 | [2020-06-TPS-OLS2-for-Turing.md](./abstracts/2020-06-TPS-OLS2-for-Turing.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3906219](https://zenodo.org/record/3906219) | [10.5281/zenodo.3906219](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3906219) |
| [Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder workshop at EANBiT Virtual Training 2020](http://eanbit.icipe.org/) | 10 July 2020 | [Shared notes](https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/BinderJuly2020) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3974919](https://zenodo.org/record/3974919) | [10.5281/zenodo.3974919](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3974919) |
| [Open Science Seminar at EANBiT Virtual Training 2020](http://eanbit.icipe.org/) | 29 July 2020 | [2020-07-EANBiT-icipe.md](./abstracts/2020-07-EANBiT-icipe.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3968440](https://zenodo.org/record/3968440) | [10.5281/zenodo.3968440](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3968440) |
| [MIT Experiential Ethics Class 2020](http://news.mit.edu/2020/infusing-ethics-experiential-learning-0508) | 29 July 2020 | [2020-07-MIT-Experiential-Ethics.md](./abstracts/2020-07-MIT-Experiential-Ethics.md) | [https://zenodo.org/record/3968454](https://zenodo.org/record/3968454) | [10.5281/zenodo.3968454](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3968454) |
| [FSCI2020 Lightening Talk](https://www.force11.org/fsci/2020) | 3 August 2020 | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179) | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179) | [https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3979179)) |
| [CarpentryConnect @ Home 2020](https://2020.carpentrycon.org/) | 7 August 2020 | [2020-08-CarpentryCon-at-home-lightning.md](./abstracts/2020-08-CarpentryCon-at-home-lightning.md) | [TBA](https://zenodo.org/record/TBA) | [TBA](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.TBA) |
| [ACM FAccT Conference 2021](https://facctconference.org/2021/cfw.html) | 3-10 March 2021 | [https://zenodo.org/record/4420152#.X_S-VeAaT1w](https://zenodo.org/record/4420152#.X_S-VeAaT1w) | Awaiting acceptance/rejection
| [RightsCon2021](https://www.rightscon.org/program/) | 7-11 June 2021 | [2021-01-RightsCon.md](./abstracts/2021-01-RightsCon.md) | Not yet submitted (deadline is 26 Jan 2021)
| [Saudi Data Community](https://www.datacommunitysa.com/home/) | 17 Feb 2021 | ["An Open Science Approach to Machine Learning in Biomedical Research"](https://github.com/BatoolMM/An-Open-Science-Approach-to-Machine-Learning) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4557637](https://zenodo.org/record/4557637) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4557637)](https://zenodo.org/record/4557637) |
| [WiDS2021 Saudi Arabia](https://batoolmm.github.io/Collaborating-on-Open-Data-Science-Projects/) | 23 Feb 2021 | ["Collaborating on Open Data Science Projects"](https://batoolmm.github.io/Collaborating-on-Open-Data-Science-Projects/) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4561139#.YFIwArQzY1I](https://zenodo.org/record/4561139) | [https://zenodo.org/record/4561139#.YFIwArQzY1I](https://zenodo.org/record/4561139) |
