book/website/community-handbook/working-groups/working-groups-guiding-principles.md, before:

(ch-working-groups-guiding-principles)=
# Working Group Guiding Principles: Reciprocity, Openness and Transparency in Decision-Making

All *The Turing Way* Working Groups should ensure their work aligns with the following practices:
1. **Reciprocity** within and towards the broader Turing Way community.
2. **Open sharing** of practices and ways of working.
3. **Transparent decision-making** within the WG.

<!-- KW: We need a paragraph here that links to the purpose of The Turing Way and some of the existing content we already have!
Something more formal but along the lines of "This wouldn't be The Turing Way if we weren't considering how to ensure our own processes are collaborative, inclusive, ethical and reproducible! -->

Recommendation and insights from answering these questions can be shared in the charter document.

## Reciprocity <!-- KW - some of the questions in this section sound like "inclusion" to me - I'm not sure how that relates to reciprocity... -->

All WGs within *The Turing Way* foster a reciprocal relationship with the wider community, representing sustained engagement by community members on a topic or subject.

To identify information and knowledge the WG can actively share with the community, the following questions can be asked:
- Where in the WG's work can community members engage or contribute?
- Are there things that the WG is trying to do within a small group that the broader community can help with?
- Are there lessons the WG has learned that can be fed back to *The Turing Way* book and the wider community?
- What progress has the WG made that should be highlighted and shared more broadly?
- Are there places where feedback and active discussions with more members outside the WG can be invited?

## Open sharing

The open sharing of the working group's practices and progress can be maintained through engagement in various forms, including:
- Using Community Calls like the Collaboration Cafe for WG meetings, discussions, and/or ongoing co-working. <!-- KW: Add links - Note JD's recent questions indicating that the current invitations to the Collaboration Cafes aren't clear -->
- Hosting Fireside Chats and/or separate events (in consultation with and supported by the core staff delivery team) on topics related to the WG activities.
- Documenting related practices and/or topics in *The Turing Way* guides, either in the Community Handbook or other ongoing guides within the project.
- Creating a new recommendation and guidance in the Community Handbook to promote in how *The Turing Way* community works. <!-- KW: What's the difference betweeen this bullet and the one above? --> 
- Collaborating with existing WGs on projects related to infrastructure, accessibility, translation, or other themes. <!-- KW: Add links -->

<!-- Is this reciprocity? Or open sharing? Or both!? -->
All WGs should be represented at (such as through the WG chair), and contribute to the *The Turing Way* Community Forums (such as by sharing updates and inviting new members to participate in their work). 
Although it might not always be possible due to the time zones or other factors, all WG members are encouraged to attend these events.

## Transparency

All WG activities should be documented transparently so that members outside the WG - including those not already engaging with *The Turing Way* community - can learn about the WG's activities and projects.

To embed transparency in their work, the WG members should ask following questions (and more) when creating their documentation:
- How can more community members join in on WGs activities or start their own? <!-- How is this different to the bullet point on line 19 "Where in the WG's work can community members engage or contribute?" -->
- How visible are various WG's activities for the rest of the community?
- How can transparent reporting invite more people to participate in the conversation?

## Transparent decision-making

<!--- This section can provide more examples and links from existing work - MS --->
<!-- KW: Agree - the "for examples" in the bullet points can be expanded I think - there is a lot of useful learning in there -->
In principle, primary decision-making should lie with the WG team itself. 
However, there will be some decisions that might require input from different people across the community, project leadership and/or project delivery team for consultation and support.

To identify where in their work a decision may or may not require inputs, support, or involvement from specific party outside the WG, we recommend WGs to use the following questions when creating their documentation, and invite clarity from the project delivery team:

- What decisions does the WG feel *empowered to take as an autonomous WG*? (for example, Accessibility WG develops accessibility guidelines)
- What decisions does the WG want to invite *consultation and support* from the broader community? (for example, Book Dash WG invites support from the community in planning their next agenda)
- What decisions should WGs involve *consultation and support* from the project delivery team? (for example, resource or support needed to execute a plan)
- What decision should be escalated to the leadership? (for example, the Infrastructure WG will need input and approval when starting a new platform)
- What other decisions would WGs want to make that don't fall under the above three categories?

Commit message:

kw updates to WG guidance - not complete!

book/website/community-handbook/working-groups/working-groups-guiding-principles.md, after:

(ch-working-groups-guiding-principles)=
# Working Group Guiding Principles: Reciprocity, Openness and Transparency in Decision-Making

All *Turing Way* Working Groups should ensure their work aligns with the following practices:
1. **Reciprocity** within and towards the broader Turing Way community.
2. **Open sharing** of practices and ways of working.
3. **Transparent decision-making** within the WG.

<!-- KW: We need a paragraph here that links to the purpose of The Turing Way and some of the existing content we already have!
Something more formal but along the lines of "This wouldn't be The Turing Way if we weren't considering how to ensure our own processes are collaborative, inclusive, ethical and reproducible! -->

Recommendation and insights from answering these questions can be shared in the WG charter document `reformat to reference!`.

## Reciprocity

All WGs within *The Turing Way* foster a reciprocal relationship with the wider community, representing sustained engagement by community members on a topic or subject.

To identify information and knowledge the WG can actively share with the community, we expect the WG charter to answer the following questions:
- How can community members engage or contribute to activities within the working group?
- Where would the WG activities benefit from input from the broader *Turing Way* community?
- What lessons from the WG should be captured in *The Turing Way* book to benefit the broader community?
- What progress has the WG made that should be highlighted, celebrated, and shared more broadly?

## Open sharing

The open sharing of the working group's practices and progress can be maintained through engagement in various forms, including:
- Using Community Calls like the Collaboration Cafe for WG meetings, discussions, and/or ongoing co-working. <!-- KW: Add links - Note JD's recent questions indicating that the current invitations to the Collaboration Cafes aren't clear -->
- Hosting Fireside Chats and/or separate events on topics related to the WG activities.
- Documenting related practices and/or topics in *The Turing Way* guides, either in the Community Handbook or other ongoing guides within the project.
- Collaborating with existing WGs on projects related to infrastructure, accessibility, translation, or other themes. <!-- KW: Add links -->

<!-- Is this reciprocity? Or open sharing? Or both!? -->
All WGs should be represented at (such as through the WG chair), and contribute to the *The Turing Way* Community Forums (such as by sharing updates and inviting new members to participate in their work). 
Although it might not always be possible due to the time zones or other factors, all WG members are encouraged to attend these events.

## Transparent decision-making

<!--- This section can provide more examples and links from existing work - MS --->
<!-- KW: Agree - the "for examples" in the bullet points can be expanded I think - there is a lot of useful learning in there -->
In principle, primary decision-making should lie with the WG team itself. 
However, there will be some decisions that might require input from different people across the community, project leadership and/or project delivery team for consultation and support.

To identify where in their work a decision may or may not require inputs, support, or involvement from specific party outside the WG, we recommend WGs to use the following questions when creating their documentation, and invite clarity from the project delivery team:

- What decisions does the WG feel *empowered to take as an autonomous WG*? (for example, Accessibility WG develops accessibility guidelines)
- What decisions does the WG want to invite *consultation and support* from the broader community? (for example, Book Dash WG invites support from the community in planning their next agenda)
- What decisions should WGs involve *consultation and support* from the project delivery team? (for example, resource or support needed to execute a plan)
- What decision should be escalated to the leadership? (for example, the Infrastructure WG will need input and approval when starting a new platform)
- What other decisions would WGs want to make that don't fall under the above three categories?

In order to maintain transparency in decision making all working groups are expected to have a chair (or co-chairs), a secretary, and a paid staff liaison.
You can read more about these roles on the following page "Roles and responsibilities" `reformat to reference`
