book/website/communication/peer-review/peer-review-conflicts.md, before:

(cm-pr-conflicts)=
# Conflict of Interest

This section provides introduces and provides examples of conflicts of interest in the context of research and academic publishing. 

## Context
Imagine if a researcher with a second job at a consulting business publishes a paper that shows increased positive outcomes from certain approaches in their field. 
Later we find out that the consulting business actively promotes and sells those approaches.
Believe it or not this is a common problem in scientific publishing, and raises the relevance of declaring the so-called conflict of interest {cite:ps}`weinkle2024coi`.

## What?
To maintain trust and integrity of scientific publishing in the global era, it is imperative to identify conflicting biases (conscious or unconscious) across all participants in the peer-reviewed publication process - including peer reviewers, editors, and the editorial board members of the journals. 
A “conflict of interest” or “competing interest” (COI) refers to situations that are, or could be perceived to interfere with the objective presentation, review, or publication of a piece of work {cite:ps}`DeGruyter2024coi`.
It is important to note that the perception of a conflict is just as harmful as the definite presence of a conflict, since it can undermine trust in the work just as much.

## Types of conflicts
COIs can be divided into main two groups, financial and non-financial {cite:ps}`taylorfrancis2024coi`.

### Examples of financial conflict of interest: 
* Employment or voluntary involvement
* Collaborations with advocacy groups related to the content of the research output
* Grants to the author or organisation
* Personal fees (honoraria, consulting fees, lecture fees)
* Intellectual property (patents, copyrights, royalties)
* Stock or share ownership
* Benefits related to the development of products

### Examples of non-financial conflict of interest: 
* Gifts (equipment, tools, software)
* Access to data repositories
* Holding a position on boards
* Close relationships with editors at the journal
* Competing interests (personal, political, religious, academic)
* Involvement in legal action (paper retraction)

## Use cases
We present below some use cases where the scientific and public communities/initiatives have flagged potential COI, and how the editorial team has handled the situation.

### Examples in Peer Review: 
The [Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE)](https://publicationethics.org) provides a diverse number of anonymized cases with COI in scientific publications. 
COPE Forum is a useful platform to discuss a publication ethics case with the wider scientific community with different anonymized use cases available [here](https://publicationethics.org/guidance/Case?t=conflict&classification%5B%5D=2774&sort=date). 
We present below one of the most recent resolved cases {cite:ps}`cope2023coi`:

#### Handling undisclosed peer reviewer conflict
##### Context
Some authors from a company recommended a peer reviewer on submitting their manuscript, who was then asked to review the manuscript. 
This reviewer recommended acceptance without change. 
One other reviewer recommended major revision (a methodological reviewer not a content expert) and the third reviewer recommended rejection. 
The editor found it unusual for a review to recommend acceptance without change so looked up this reviewer and found a manuscript in press at another journal where the reviewer, as an author, disclosed relationships with the same company the authors work at. 
These included honoraria, consultant fees, and advisory board participation. The manuscript in press indeed was about the same drug covered in the submission. 
The reviewer answered "no" to the question asked during the peer review process on whether they had any conflicts of interest related to the research. The editor confirmed the reviewer had a valid email address.

##### Question to the Forum
What process should be undertaken when a peer reviewer does not disclose their relationships with a company, provides a suspicious review, and at the same time, where the authors (who are employed by this company) recommended that peer reviewer in the first place?

##### Advice
The presenter of the case informed the Forum that the journal had challenged both the authors and the reviewer on their failure to disclose relevant conflicts of interest. 
The authors stated that they had not known when they recommended the reviewer that this person had links with the company. The reviewer confirmed this, and also said that they had not been involved in the work which produced the paper; thus they had felt that there was no conflict.
The Forum agreed that the reviewer did have an interest which should have been declared. They should either have raised this with the editor, allowing the journal to make a decision on how to handle the situation, or declined to write a review.
The editors should dismiss this review and seek a replacement if their policy is to have three reviews per paper, or go ahead with the two remaining reports. They should also provide some education for the reviewer on conflicts of interest.

##### Follow-up
The journal added a note to the paper from the editor-in-chief, stating that due to an unfortunate technical mistake when handling the article, one of the authors was also a subject editor at the same time. 
The editor-in-chief also stated that he guaranteed that the scientific standards and honesty had not been violated in any way.

### Examples in Open Peer Review: 
There are also examples of COI in open peer review, where we could find other types of conflicts that occur and make them accountable.
We provide below some examples in the open-source community due to co-authorship and shared affiliations:

* Journal of Open Source Education: a reviewer of an [education-focused resource](https://github.com/openjournals/jose-reviews/issues/259#issuecomment-2393882259) indicated a co-authorship on a large author line paper and a little more interaction with the author through a large multi-investigator/multi-institutional effort. The editor-in-chief waived the conflict stressing the scope and open peer-review nature of the journal towards a more constructive and less gatekeeping goal. 
* Environmental Data Science Book (EDS book): a reviewer of a notebook submission raised a [potential COI](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/environmental-ds-book/issues/236#issuecomment-2021527918) because of a shared affiliation between the editor-in-chief who acted as an editor and authors of an open-source tool showcased in the notebook. The immediate follow-up was assigning a different editor to handle the revision of the submission.

### Examples of COI policies
Journals usually indicate their COI policies through a dedicated section on ethical guidelines/declarations. 
COI policies largely vary by domain and community. 
Some journals have specific requirements about what interests must be disclosed and the date range that you need to include (for example conflicts over the past 3 years). 
The table below provides an example of some policies in peer-reviewed journals and other sectors for different research outputs.

| Journal / Initiative                                             | Domain  | Research product     | Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Specific requirements (time)                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Nature                                                           | General | Manuscript           | [https://www.nature.com/nature-portfolio/editorial-policies/competing-interests](https://www.nature.com/nature-portfolio/editorial-policies/competing-interests)                                                                                                                                                               | Journal specific                                                                     |
| Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences                  | General | Manuscript           | [https://www.pnas.org/author-center/editorial-and-journal-policies#competing-interest](https://www.pnas.org/author-center/editorial-and-journal-policies#competing-interest)                                                                                                                                                   | Past 4 years collaborators                                                           |
| The Journal of Open Source Software                              | General | Open Source Software | [https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reviewer_guidelines.html#joss-conflict-of-interest-policy](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reviewer_guidelines.html#joss-conflict-of-interest-policy)                                                                                                                             | Past 4 years collaborators Recent (past year) association with the same organisation |
| UK Research and Innovation declaration of interest for assessors | General | Grants               | [https://www.ukri.org/publications/ukri-declarations-of-interest-policy-and-guidance/declaration-of-interests-guidance-for-assessors-reviewers-and-panellists/](https://www.ukri.org/publications/ukri-declarations-of-interest-policy-and-guidance/declaration-of-interests-guidance-for-assessors-reviewers-and-panellists/) | Past 3 years collaborators                                                           |
| CHAOSS D&I Badging program                                       | General | Events               | [https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/badging/reviewing/conflict-of-interest-policy](https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/badging/reviewing/conflict-of-interest-policy)                                                                                                                       | Recent (past year) association with the same organisation                            |

Commit message:

fix wrong text in follow-up for the COPE use case

book/website/communication/peer-review/peer-review-conflicts.md, after:

(cm-pr-conflicts)=
# Conflict of Interest

This section provides introduces and provides examples of conflicts of interest in the context of research and academic publishing. 

## Context
Imagine if a researcher with a second job at a consulting business publishes a paper that shows increased positive outcomes from certain approaches in their field. 
Later we find out that the consulting business actively promotes and sells those approaches.
Believe it or not this is a common problem in scientific publishing, and raises the relevance of declaring the so-called conflict of interest {cite:ps}`weinkle2024coi`.

## What?
To maintain trust and integrity of scientific publishing in the global era, it is imperative to identify conflicting biases (conscious or unconscious) across all participants in the peer-reviewed publication process - including peer reviewers, editors, and the editorial board members of the journals. 
A “conflict of interest” or “competing interest” (COI) refers to situations that are, or could be perceived to interfere with the objective presentation, review, or publication of a piece of work {cite:ps}`DeGruyter2024coi`.
It is important to note that the perception of a conflict is just as harmful as the definite presence of a conflict, since it can undermine trust in the work just as much.

## Types of conflicts
COIs can be divided into main two groups, financial and non-financial {cite:ps}`taylorfrancis2024coi`.

### Examples of financial conflict of interest: 
* Employment or voluntary involvement
* Collaborations with advocacy groups related to the content of the research output
* Grants to the author or organisation
* Personal fees (honoraria, consulting fees, lecture fees)
* Intellectual property (patents, copyrights, royalties)
* Stock or share ownership
* Benefits related to the development of products

### Examples of non-financial conflict of interest: 
* Gifts (equipment, tools, software)
* Access to data repositories
* Holding a position on boards
* Close relationships with editors at the journal
* Competing interests (personal, political, religious, academic)
* Involvement in legal action (paper retraction)

## Use cases
We present below some use cases where the scientific and public communities/initiatives have flagged potential COI, and how the editorial team has handled the situation.

### Examples in Peer Review: 
The [Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE)](https://publicationethics.org) provides a diverse number of anonymized cases with COI in scientific publications. 
COPE Forum is a useful platform to discuss a publication ethics case with the wider scientific community with different anonymized use cases available [here](https://publicationethics.org/guidance/Case?t=conflict&classification%5B%5D=2774&sort=date). 
We present below one of the most recent resolved cases {cite:ps}`cope2023coi`:

#### Handling undisclosed peer reviewer conflict
##### Context
Some authors from a company recommended a peer reviewer on submitting their manuscript, who was then asked to review the manuscript. 
This reviewer recommended acceptance without change. 
One other reviewer recommended major revision (a methodological reviewer not a content expert) and the third reviewer recommended rejection. 
The editor found it unusual for a review to recommend acceptance without change so looked up this reviewer and found a manuscript in press at another journal where the reviewer, as an author, disclosed relationships with the same company the authors work at. 
These included honoraria, consultant fees, and advisory board participation. The manuscript in press indeed was about the same drug covered in the submission. 
The reviewer answered "no" to the question asked during the peer review process on whether they had any conflicts of interest related to the research. The editor confirmed the reviewer had a valid email address.

##### Question to the Forum
What process should be undertaken when a peer reviewer does not disclose their relationships with a company, provides a suspicious review, and at the same time, where the authors (who are employed by this company) recommended that peer reviewer in the first place?

##### Advice
The presenter of the case informed the Forum that the journal had challenged both the authors and the reviewer on their failure to disclose relevant conflicts of interest. 
The authors stated that they had not known when they recommended the reviewer that this person had links with the company. The reviewer confirmed this, and also said that they had not been involved in the work which produced the paper; thus they had felt that there was no conflict.
The Forum agreed that the reviewer did have an interest which should have been declared. They should either have raised this with the editor, allowing the journal to make a decision on how to handle the situation, or declined to write a review.
The editors should dismiss this review and seek a replacement if their policy is to have three reviews per paper, or go ahead with the two remaining reports. They should also provide some education for the reviewer on conflicts of interest.

##### Follow-up
The editors decided that the reviewer had made an honest mistake and have closed the case.

### Examples in Open Peer Review: 
There are also examples of COI in open peer review, where we could find other types of conflicts that occur and make them accountable.
We provide below some examples in the open-source community due to co-authorship and shared affiliations:

* Journal of Open Source Education: a reviewer of an [education-focused resource](https://github.com/openjournals/jose-reviews/issues/259#issuecomment-2393882259) indicated a co-authorship on a large author line paper and a little more interaction with the author through a large multi-investigator/multi-institutional effort. The editor-in-chief waived the conflict stressing the scope and open peer-review nature of the journal towards a more constructive and less gatekeeping goal. 
* Environmental Data Science Book (EDS book): a reviewer of a notebook submission raised a [potential COI](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/environmental-ds-book/issues/236#issuecomment-2021527918) because of a shared affiliation between the editor-in-chief who acted as an editor and authors of an open-source tool showcased in the notebook. The immediate follow-up was assigning a different editor to handle the revision of the submission.

### Examples of COI policies
Journals usually indicate their COI policies through a dedicated section on ethical guidelines/declarations. 
COI policies largely vary by domain and community. 
Some journals have specific requirements about what interests must be disclosed and the date range that you need to include (for example conflicts over the past 3 years). 
The table below provides an example of some policies in peer-reviewed journals and other sectors for different research outputs.

| Journal / Initiative                                             | Domain  | Research product     | Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Specific requirements (time)                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Nature                                                           | General | Manuscript           | [https://www.nature.com/nature-portfolio/editorial-policies/competing-interests](https://www.nature.com/nature-portfolio/editorial-policies/competing-interests)                                                                                                                                                               | Journal specific                                                                     |
| Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences                  | General | Manuscript           | [https://www.pnas.org/author-center/editorial-and-journal-policies#competing-interest](https://www.pnas.org/author-center/editorial-and-journal-policies#competing-interest)                                                                                                                                                   | Past 4 years collaborators                                                           |
| The Journal of Open Source Software                              | General | Open Source Software | [https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reviewer_guidelines.html#joss-conflict-of-interest-policy](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reviewer_guidelines.html#joss-conflict-of-interest-policy)                                                                                                                             | Past 4 years collaborators Recent (past year) association with the same organisation |
| UK Research and Innovation declaration of interest for assessors | General | Grants               | [https://www.ukri.org/publications/ukri-declarations-of-interest-policy-and-guidance/declaration-of-interests-guidance-for-assessors-reviewers-and-panellists/](https://www.ukri.org/publications/ukri-declarations-of-interest-policy-and-guidance/declaration-of-interests-guidance-for-assessors-reviewers-and-panellists/) | Past 3 years collaborators                                                           |
| CHAOSS D&I Badging program                                       | General | Events               | [https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/badging/reviewing/conflict-of-interest-policy](https://handbook.chaoss.community/community-handbook/badging/reviewing/conflict-of-interest-policy)                                                                                                                       | Recent (past year) association with the same organisation                            |
