
(pd-missing-data-structured-missingness)=
# Structured Missingness 

A alternative way of characterizing missing data, known as structured missingness (SM), has been pioneered by researchers of the [Turing-Roche Partnership](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/alan-turing-institute-roche-strategic-partnership). SM arises in data that is not MAR, but that has some structure or pattern {cite:ps}`Mitra2023structuredmissingness`. This is common in research contexts where data is combined from multiple studies or sources. For instance, many large-scale healthcare studies are multimodal and attempt to include a diverse set of patients, therefore capturing data for a heterogeneous group of individuals. Therefore, data is often collected at multiple time points and multiple sites, where different measurements may be taken, such a clinical, genomic or imaging measures. Our example dataset (introduced in ref{pd-missing-data-structures}) is also an example of SM. 

> **Example**: The missing values in the cognitive score and the blood pressure readings are examples of SM. The blood pressure readings (MAR) are missing in participants that could not attend the clinic due to being older and having more motor dysfunction. The cognitive score missing values (MNAR) are missing in participants with significant cognitive decline. Therefore, the missingness in both instances has some information that can be leveraged in further analyses and this would be also considered as SM.  
>
> | Participant Number | Age | Diastolic Blood Pressure | Systolic Blood Pressure | Blood Test Result                                  | Motor Score | Cognitive Score                                  |
> |--------------------|-----|--------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
> | 1                  | 56  | 82                       | 118                     | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | 10          | 35                                              |
> | 2                  | 78  | 87                       | 134                     | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | 32          | 29                                              |
> | 3                  | 85  | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | 27          | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> |
> | 4                  | 43  | 83                       | 121                     | Negative                                           | 15          | 36                                              |
> | 5                  | 67  | 86                       | 131                     | Positive                                           | 20          | 25                                              |
> | 6                  | 82  | 92                       | 133                     | Negative                                           | 26          | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> |
> | 7                  | 88  | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | Positive                                           | 34          | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> |
> | 8                  | 71  | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | <span style="color:red;"><strong>N/A</strong></span> | Negative                                           | 33          | 22                                              |
>
> A complete case analysis may have bias introduced due to the missing blood pressure readings (MAR) and cognitive score (MNAR) values, while the blood test (MCAR) values would not introduce bias, but would decrease statistical power. MAR data may introduce bias by selecting a non-represenative subset of the data. This is similarly the case for MNAR, but as the mechanism behind the missigness is not apparent, handling this bias in subsequent analysis can be challenging.  


Many datasets, fusing data from multiple sites and modalities, do take care to follow a certain design and data collection process. However, machine learning methods perform best with large datasets. It is common practice for a machine learning model to include data from many studies, often with different designs and variables. Missing values may therefore include information in and of themselves; they may be related to sampling methodologies or reflect population characteristics. Traditional imputation methods, such as those introduced in ref{`pd-missing-data-methods`}, frequently are not appropriate for handling SM and do not take advantage of the information inherent in SM {cite:ps}`Mitra2023structuredmissingness`. SM also has consequences for downstream analyses; if there is bias to the SM mechanisms, the fairness of the model would be in question. Further research is required to identify appropriate methods for universally handling SM and in defining SM within the MCAR, MAR, and MNAR framework {cite:ps}`Jackson2023structuredmissingness`. 


(sectioninitials-filename-summary)=
## Summary
SM is an up and coming area of research that aims to improve large-scale statistical and machine learning analyses, by reducing model degradation and bias. 