book/website/project-design/missing-data/missing-data-resources.md, before:

(pd-missing-data-resources)=
# Resources

> Use this subchapter to
>  - tell readers what other chapters in _The Turing Way_ book they should read next
>  - point readers towards external resources where they can learn more about the topic of your chapter

(pd-missing-data-learn)=
## What to Learn Next

> **Recommend other chapters in _The Turing Way_ book that readers should read next as a "level up", and explain why.**
> Please cross reference to those chapters so that reader can easily navigate to them.
> If the target chapter does not have a label, add one.

> You may skip this section if there are no chapters in _The Turing Way_ to link to.

(pd-missing-data-reading)=
## Further Reading

> **Point users to external resources to learn more about your chapter's topic.** 
> For each resource, please provide a link and a reason why the reader should be interested in it.
> Use a list for this section

- [Flexible Imputation of Missing Data](https://stefvanbuuren.name/fimd/): This is a much more in-depth look at missing data imputation that goes into further characterizing data, including mathematical definitions, and describing data imputation methods. 
- [Resource 1](link_to_resource): _reason for recommendation_
- [Resource 1](link_to_resource): _reason for recommendation_


<!-- IMPORTANT!

- Use this template to create your chapter's resources section. This is always the last part of your subchapter

BEFORE YOU GO

- Have a look at the Style Guide and the Maintaining Consistency chapters to ensure that you have followed the relevant recommendations on
  - Avoiding HTML
  - Consecutive headers
  - Labels and cross referencing
  - Latin abbreviations
  - References and citations
  - Title casing
  - Matching headers with reference in table of content

-->

Commit message:

finished first draft of visualising missingness sub chapter

book/website/project-design/missing-data/missing-data-resources.md, after:

(pd-missing-data-resources)=
# Resources

> Use this subchapter to
>  - tell readers what other chapters in _The Turing Way_ book they should read next
>  - point readers towards external resources where they can learn more about the topic of your chapter
<!-- IMPORTANT!
https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/naniar/vignettes/naniar-visualisation.html
-->
(pd-missing-data-learn)=
## What to Learn Next

> **Recommend other chapters in _The Turing Way_ book that readers should read next as a "level up", and explain why.**
> Please cross reference to those chapters so that reader can easily navigate to them.
> If the target chapter does not have a label, add one.

> You may skip this section if there are no chapters in _The Turing Way_ to link to.

(pd-missing-data-reading)=
## Further Reading

> **Point users to external resources to learn more about your chapter's topic.** 
> For each resource, please provide a link and a reason why the reader should be interested in it.
> Use a list for this section

- [Flexible Imputation of Missing Data](https://stefvanbuuren.name/fimd/): This is a much more in-depth look at missing data imputation that goes into further characterizing data, including mathematical definitions, and describing data imputation methods. 
- [Resource 1](link_to_resource): _reason for recommendation_
- [Getting Started with naniar](https://naniar.njtierney.com/articles/naniar.html#tidy-missing-data-the-shadow-matrix): More R functions to visualize Data Missingness, including one using decision trees to map out the proportion of missingness in a variable based on all other variables. 


<!-- IMPORTANT!

- Use this template to create your chapter's resources section. This is always the last part of your subchapter

BEFORE YOU GO

- Have a look at the Style Guide and the Maintaining Consistency chapters to ensure that you have followed the relevant recommendations on
  - Avoiding HTML
  - Consecutive headers
  - Labels and cross referencing
  - Latin abbreviations
  - References and citations
  - Title casing
  - Matching headers with reference in table of content

-->
