book/website/communication/research-objects.md, before:

(cm-ro)=
# Research Object to capture the Research Life Cycle

## Prerequisites / recommended skill level
No previous knowledge is needed.

## Summary
Research outcomes encompass publications, data, software, bibliographical material and any other resources (such as experimental workflows, standards) that can be potentially useful for conducting research.

Research Objects (ROs) {cite:ps}`Garciasilva2019-research-objects` allow working open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end.

In this chapter, we will describe the definition of ROs, their typologies and which platform and technologies exist. 

```{figure} ../figures/research-object.jpg
---
name: ro-lifecyle
alt: This image shows how research objects evolve and grow in content during the collaboration process and how new research objects can be derived from existing ones.
---
Research Objects allow working open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end. _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

(cm-ro-motivation)=
## Background & Motivation
Research objects (ROs) are living resources helping to organise and describe the inputs, materials, and methods in open science and not only at the end when publishing the research outcomes. In short, ROs can be seen as a single information unit where any research material can be shared with other scientists at discrete milestones of the investigation identified by an PID, possibly a DOI. 

The entire research lifecycle can be captured, allowing the release and publication of results progressively, keeping track of versioning and change information. ROs facilitate reproducibility and reuse of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and the possibility of forking existing ROs. As a result, ROs support evidence and support validation of findings claimed in scholarly articles.

ROs and their content have rich machine-readable metadata that can be complemented by automatically discovered metadata through text enrichment service, to enhance the findability and accessibility of all scientific work. 

All the research work, including potential failures, dead ends or any other information such as experimental protocols, standards as well as all the individuals who contributed to the research can be recorded in the RO. 

(cm-ro-contribute)=
## Contribute to this Chapter
We invite all contributions in the following areas:
- Add or update relevant concepts regarding ROs;
- Complete and/or add information about typologies;
- Include additional implementation of ROs and associated services;

Commit message:

linking sections of data and software papers

book/website/communication/research-objects.md, after:

(cm-ro)=
# Research Object to capture the Research Life Cycle

## Prerequisites / recommended skill level
No previous knowledge is needed.

## Summary
Research outcomes encompass publications, data, software, bibliographical material and any other resources (such as experimental workflows, standards) that can be potentially useful for conducting research.

Research Objects (ROs) {cite:ps}`Garciasilva2019-research-objects` allow working open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end.

In this chapter, we will introduce ROs, their typologies and which platform and technologies exist to create and publish them.

```{figure} ../figures/research-object.jpg
---
name: ro-lifecyle
alt: This image shows how research objects evolve and grow in content during the collaboration process and how new research objects can be derived from existing ones.
---
Research Objects allow working open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end. _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

(cm-ro-motivation)=
## Background & Motivation
Research objects (ROs) are living resources helping to organise and describe the inputs, materials, and methods used in a scientific experiment and obtained as a result and not only at the end when publishing the research outcomes. In short, ROs can be seen as a single information unit where any research material can be shared with other scientists at discrete milestones of the investigation. 

The entire research lifecycle can be captured, allowing the release and publication of results progressively, keeping track of versioning and change information. ROs facilitate reproducibility and reuse of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and the possibility of forking existing ROs. As a result, ROs support evidence and support validation of findings claimed in scholarly articles.

ROs and their content should have rich machine-readable metadata to enhance the findability and accessibility of all scientific work. 

All the research work, including potential failures, dead ends or any other information such as experimental protocols, software code, standards as well as all the individuals who contributed to the research can be recorded in the RO. 

(cm-ro-contribute)=
## Contribute to this Chapter
We invite all contributions in the following areas:
- Add or update relevant concepts regarding ROs;
- Complete and/or add information about typologies;
- Include additional implementation of ROs and associated services.
