book/website/communication/wa-comms.md, before:

(cm-wa-comms)=

# Communicating with wider audiences

(cm-wa-comms-prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites


| Prerequisite | Importance | Skill Level | Notes |
| -------------|----------|------|----|
| {ref}`Open Research <rr-open-research>` | Helpful | Beginner | None |


```{figure} ../figures/ADDHEREPATHWAY.jpg
---
name: 
alt: A person sitting at a computer with different communications methods coming out of the computer including blogs, podcasts, lay summaries and social media. There are also dictionaries for foreign languages showing that it is important to translate our research into different
---
_The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Original version on Zenodo. http://doi.org/ - add here zenodo link. 
```

(cm-wa-comms-summary)=
## Summary
In this chapter, we present information about how to communicate with wider audiences. 
This includes blogging, writing lay summaries, podcasting, presenting posters and talks at conferences outside of your discipline, and using social media. 

These communication methods can be used to increase the breadth of the audience for your research or community. 
This involves translating technical scientific writing into different styles that make your research more accessible to specialists outside of your specific discipline and also to the wider public.

We present here several case studies from groups and individuals that have successfully used these methods of communication. 
They describe how they have practically gone about doing the communication method and offer some tips for others to get started.

Lessons learnt in this chapter will enable researchers to communicate their research more clearly with wider audiences and therefore increase its overall impact.

(cm-wa-comms-useful)=
## Motivation and Background
Research projects and communities are judged on the impact that they make. 

This is often based on academic journal articles but there is much more scope to communicate progress, results and conclusions through other streams of dissemination. 
Choosing to communicate in a less technical way and with more consideration for accessibility will ultimately result in your research being read and heard by more people.

These methods can therefore have considerable impact on the overall project or community in terms of gaining interest within your own scientific discipline, engaging with the wider scientific community and gaining interest from the general public.

Commit message:

adding image link and alt text

book/website/communication/wa-comms.md, after:

(cm-wa-comms)=

# Communicating with wider audiences

(cm-wa-comms-prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites


| Prerequisite | Importance | Skill Level | Notes |
| -------------|----------|------|----|
| {ref}`Open Research <rr-open-research>` | Helpful | Beginner | None |


```{figure} ../figures/communication-styles-with-text.jpg
---
name: Communicating with wider audiences
alt: Two people sitting working. One using a feather and scroll with the words inaccessible and too technical written on the scroll. The other person sitting at a computer with different communication methods coming out of the computer including blogs, podcasts, lay summaries and social media. There are also dictionaries for foreign languages showing that it is important to translate our research into different languages. Accessibility is written on the computer screen.
---
_The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Original version on Zenodo. http://doi.org/ - add here zenodo link. 
```

(cm-wa-comms-summary)=
## Summary
In this chapter, we present information about how to communicate with wider audiences. 
This includes blogging, writing lay summaries, podcasting, presenting posters and talks at conferences outside of your discipline, and using social media. 

These communication methods can be used to increase the breadth of the audience for your research or community. 
This involves translating technical scientific writing into different styles that make your research more accessible to specialists outside of your specific discipline and also to the wider public.

We present here several case studies from groups and individuals that have successfully used these methods of communication. 
They describe how they have practically gone about doing the communication method and offer some tips for others to get started.

Lessons learnt in this chapter will enable researchers to communicate their research more clearly with wider audiences and therefore increase its overall impact.

(cm-wa-comms-useful)=
## Motivation and Background
Research projects and communities are judged on the impact that they make. 

This is often based on academic journal articles but there is much more scope to communicate progress, results and conclusions through other streams of dissemination. 
Choosing to communicate in a less technical way and with more consideration for accessibility will ultimately result in your research being read and heard by more people.

These methods can therefore have considerable impact on the overall project or community in terms of gaining interest within your own scientific discipline, engaging with the wider scientific community and gaining interest from the general public.
