book/website/afterword/data-usage-statement.md, before:

(data-usage)=
# TTW Book Data Usage

We want to collect data on the reach and findability of _The Turing Way_ book, such that we can report on impact and also improve our book content to be accessible for a diverse and wide audience.

See our ongoing discussions around which insights could help improve the content quality [on GitHub](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/discussions/3713)

## User Awareness Statement - Google Analytics
For this reason, we are currently tracking website traffic data through Google Analytics.
However, Google Analytics is [problematic](https://piwik.pro/blog/is-google-analytics-gdpr-compliant/) and so we are currently working towards adopting an open-source and GDPR-compliant analytics solution, such as Matomo for example.

In the meantime, we have taken several steps to configure Google Analytics to be as GDPR-compliant as possible:

- Our data retention settings are set to the minimum duration possible (2 months).
- All advertising features are disabled.
- We do not send user IDs to Google.
- We do not share any collected data with Google beyond what is required of us to ["maintain and protect the Google Analytics service."](https://business.safety.google/adsprocessorterms/)
- (IP addresses are now anonymized per default)

By implementing these measures, we hope to somewhat mitigate the adverse effects of Google Analytics while we transition to a better tool.

Commit message:

ENH improve readability (Grade 8 according to hemingway app)

book/website/afterword/data-usage-statement.md, after:

(data-usage)=
# TTW Book Data Usage

We want to collect data on the reach and findability of The Turing Way book.
For example, data on website traffic helps with reporting impact.
Data on search terms people use to find the  website can help us understand readers' needs and preferences. 
With this knowledge we can better tailor our content to be useful.

See our ongoing discussions around which insights could help improve the content quality [on GitHub](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/discussions/3713)

## User Awareness Statement - Google Analytics
For the above reasons reason, we are currently tracking website traffic data through Google Analytics.
But, Google Analytics is [problematic](https://piwik.pro/blog/is-google-analytics-gdpr-compliant/).
We are working on using an open-source, GDPR-compliant analytics tool like Matomo instead.

For now, we configured Google Analytics to be as GDPR-compliant as possible:

- Our data retention settings are set to the minimum duration possible (2 months).
- All advertising features are disabled.
- We do not send user IDs to Google.
- We do not share any collected data with Google beyond what is required of us to ["maintain and protect the Google Analytics service."](https://business.safety.google/adsprocessorterms/)
- (IP addresses are now anonymized per default)

By implementing these measures, we hope to somewhat mitigate the adverse effects of Google Analytics while we transition to a better tool.
