# Examples of Open Source Business Models

Open source has been an important theme for AI communities in academia and industry. Popular open source software libraries like OpenCV and Scikit-Learn and open dataset and model providers like Hugging Face and Open AI have shaped how AI algorithms are discovered, improved, shared, and deployed. While each organisation pursued different paths towards sustainability, reflective of when they were founded, some themes emerge around important initial steps.

Of the four organisations of focus in this case study, OpenCV and Scikit-Learn started as community-driven projects. Both had a small group of motiviated individuals with a mission of creating "optimised" and "accesible" code within their domains and found other interested supporters within their organisation or networks to help continue building out the project. These grassroots efforts served to generate interest among many across academia and industry and foster a sense of community among these different user groups. The Scikit-Learn community has recently spun out a company called Probabl, to offer services such as training and consulting relating to the scikit-learn codebase.

In contrast, OpenAI and Hugging Face started as investor-funded organisations to tackle specific topics such as AI Safety and Chatbots. While Open AI began as a self-defined open source non-for-profit and Hugging Face as an AI product company, both have taken different paths as they have grown. After a private investment from Microsoft, Open AI split into a not-for-profit and for-profit arm. Around the same time, they also began exploring new models of releasing code and models in a more closed or tiered-access way, different from the original "open appraoch." In contrast, Hugging Face has moved in a different direction, transitioning from an AI product buisness model to become an open source AI model and data platform, with over 100,000 pre-trained models and 10,000 datasets hosted on the platform. It has also built BigScience, a multi-language Large Language Model (LLM) openly with collaborators around the world.

From these examples open source AI sustainability models a few themes stand out:
- Identifying a strong organisational partner such as a national institute like INRIA or a known industry programme like Google Summer of Code can be a strong catalyst when starting out both for resources and community building
- Finding strong first supporter(s) is essential for sustaining development and to spread the word to others
- Identifying a value add to the ecosystem beyond the "open" aspect is helpful, for example OpenCV's focus on optimisation for computationally heavy image processing or Scikit-Learn's simplicity of API design for ease of use
- Projects that start with a closed focus, in the private sector, can become open and vice versa
- Starting with international teams can help the growth of an open source project, as demonstrated by OpenCV, Scikit-Learn, and Hugging Face
- Build for the existing ecosystem's needs - OpenCV and Scikit-Learn's compatibility with Python has encouraged growth with developers already using Python and SciPy for their work.
