project_management/credit_requests/turing_mybinder_azure_credit_request_template.md, before:

# TEMPLATE Turing Binder Federation Membership - Credit Request

## Project Title

Turing membership of the International Binder Federation

## Project PI

Kirstie Whitaker

## Existing Subscription

Yes.

- Name: `turing-mybinder`
- Subscription ID: `7468bc83-00d6-4cf8-a73d-6416af9e7180`

## Credit Request

$25,000

## Start/End dates for allocation

- Begin: `TBA`
- End: `TBA`

## Platform Justification

A BinderHub (https://binderhub.readthedocs.io) is a computational infrastructure that requires resources which are readily available as a service on the Azure cloud platform (see the "Computational Requirements" section for a detailed description).
A different computing platform would likely not have these services in place.

mybinder.org is already hosted by four cloud platforms: Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, OVH.com (a European cloud provider), and an on-prem service GESIS Notebooks hosted by the Leibniz Institute.
This diversity of hosts consolidates Project Binder's status as a cloud-neutral, open source project.
As a substantial contributor to the service, we are propagating knowledge related to maintaining a BinderHub on Azure into the wider Binder community and contributing to a sustainable and resilient open infrastructure by decentralising resources and knowledge throughout the Federation.

## Research Justification

The Binder Federation (https://blog.jupyter.org/the-international-binder-federation-4f6235c1537e) is an experiment in open infrastructure for data science and beyond.
It is a community of scientists and open source developers dedicated to scientific reproducibility, communicating ideas through interactive computing, and providing real-time access to results and analyses.
The Federation running mybinder.org has grown to hosting ~140k user sessions per week which range in purpose from research, to teaching and workshops, and beyond.
As of `ENTER MONTH/YEAR HERE`, the Turing Institute supports around `ENTER PERCENTAGE OF TRAFFIC HERE`% of the total traffic mybinder.org receives as a direct result of these donated credits.

Continuing to be a member of the Federation promotes all three of the Institute's goals: advancing world-class research on real-world problems in academic, government and industry settings; providing interactive training materials for the next generation of data science leaders; and leading the public conversation on modular, interoperable, community owned and run infrastructure.
Our goal  shared with Project Binder is to democratise access to artificial intelligence and data science for all.
Therefore, we hope you grant this request to continue our membership to the Federation.

## The Computational Requirements

- A managed Kubernetes cluster composed of Standard D4s v3 virtual machine nodes. These VMs have 4 vCPUs and 16 GB RAM.
  This is roughly half the size of the VMs in the GKE cluster and similar in size to those in the OVH cluster.
  Since first launching the Turing Binder cluster, we have increased the proportion of traffic we share with the Federation and hence the cluster has scaled out to accommodate extra users.
- A Virtual Network.
  This allows us to manage how users can connect with the cluster and monitor how much data is transferred.
- An Azure DNS zone to host the Public IP addresses of the service.
- A Key Vault to securely store information related to the deployment of the infrastructure.

## List of people who require access

Unchanged from previous setup.

## Costing breakdown

The following breakdown was estimated using the [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/calculator/).

| Service type | Region | Description | Estimated monthly cost per unit ($) | Number of units | Estimated monthly cost ($) | Estimated allocation cost ($) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: |
| Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) | West Europe | D4s (4 vCPU, 16 GB RAM) nodes | 167.90 | 10 | 1,679.00 | 21,827.00 |
| Virtual Network | | 500 GB data transfer within West Europe region | 10.00 | 1 | 10.00 | 130.00 |
| Azure DNS | West Europe | 1 hosted DNS zone | 0.90 | 1 | 0.90 | 11.70 |
| Key Vault | West Europe | | 0.00 | 1 | 0.00 | 0.00 |
| | | | | | | |
| | | | | Subtotal | | 21,968.70 |
| | | | | Additional budget for autoscaling and testing | 13.8% | 3,031.30 |
| | | | | **Total** | | **25,000.00** |

Commit message:

Add explainer that mybinder.org requires diverse funding sources for long-term sustainability

project_management/credit_requests/turing_mybinder_azure_credit_request_template.md, after:

# TEMPLATE Turing Binder Federation Membership - Credit Request

## Project Title

Turing membership of the International Binder Federation

## Project PI

Kirstie Whitaker

## Existing Subscription

Yes.

- Name: `turing-mybinder`
- Subscription ID: `7468bc83-00d6-4cf8-a73d-6416af9e7180`

## Credit Request

$25,000

## Start/End dates for allocation

- Begin: `TBA`
- End: `TBA`

## Platform Justification

A BinderHub (https://binderhub.readthedocs.io) is a computational infrastructure that requires resources which are readily available as a service on the Azure cloud platform (see the "Computational Requirements" section for a detailed description).
A different computing platform would likely not have these services in place.

mybinder.org is already hosted by four cloud platforms: Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, OVH.com (a European cloud provider), and an on-prem service GESIS Notebooks hosted by the Leibniz Institute.
This diversity of hosts consolidates Project Binder's status as a cloud-neutral, open source project.
As a substantial contributor to the service, we are propagating knowledge related to maintaining a BinderHub on Azure into the wider Binder community and contributing to a sustainable and resilient open infrastructure by decentralising resources and knowledge throughout the Federation.

It is worth noting that the mybinder.org operating team are specifically soliciting diverse sources of funding for a range of hosted infrastrucutre as part of its long-term sustainability plan to avoid being locked into a single cloud provider or funding source.

## Research Justification

The Binder Federation (https://blog.jupyter.org/the-international-binder-federation-4f6235c1537e) is an experiment in open infrastructure for data science and beyond.
It is a community of scientists and open source developers dedicated to scientific reproducibility, communicating ideas through interactive computing, and providing real-time access to results and analyses.
The Federation running mybinder.org has grown to hosting ~140k user sessions per week which range in purpose from research, to teaching and workshops, and beyond.
As of `ENTER MONTH/YEAR HERE`, the Turing Institute supports around `ENTER PERCENTAGE OF TRAFFIC HERE`% of the total traffic mybinder.org receives as a direct result of these donated credits.

Continuing to be a member of the Federation promotes all three of the Institute's goals: advancing world-class research on real-world problems in academic, government and industry settings; providing interactive training materials for the next generation of data science leaders; and leading the public conversation on modular, interoperable, community owned and run infrastructure.
Our goal  shared with Project Binder is to democratise access to artificial intelligence and data science for all.
Therefore, we hope you grant this request to continue our membership to the Federation.

## The Computational Requirements

- A managed Kubernetes cluster composed of Standard D4s v3 virtual machine nodes. These VMs have 4 vCPUs and 16 GB RAM.
  This is roughly half the size of the VMs in the GKE cluster and similar in size to those in the OVH cluster.
  Since first launching the Turing Binder cluster, we have increased the proportion of traffic we share with the Federation and hence the cluster has scaled out to accommodate extra users.
- A Virtual Network.
  This allows us to manage how users can connect with the cluster and monitor how much data is transferred.
- An Azure DNS zone to host the Public IP addresses of the service.
- A Key Vault to securely store information related to the deployment of the infrastructure.

## List of people who require access

Unchanged from previous setup.

## Costing breakdown

The following breakdown was estimated using the [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/calculator/).

| Service type | Region | Description | Estimated monthly cost per unit ($) | Number of units | Estimated monthly cost ($) | Estimated allocation cost ($) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: |
| Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) | West Europe | D4s (4 vCPU, 16 GB RAM) nodes | 167.90 | 10 | 1,679.00 | 21,827.00 |
| Virtual Network | | 500 GB data transfer within West Europe region | 10.00 | 1 | 10.00 | 130.00 |
| Azure DNS | West Europe | 1 hosted DNS zone | 0.90 | 1 | 0.90 | 11.70 |
| Key Vault | West Europe | | 0.00 | 1 | 0.00 | 0.00 |
| | | | | | | |
| | | | | Subtotal | | 21,968.70 |
| | | | | Additional budget for autoscaling and testing | 13.8% | 3,031.30 |
| | | | | **Total** | | **25,000.00** |
