book/website/collaboration/leadership/leadership-opportunities.md, before:

(cl-leadership-opportunities)=
# Creating Leadership Opportunities

While leadership opportunities can emerge, it can be helpful to create clear opportunities and invite individuals to lead.  

This can be done through inviting people for individual contributions and facilitating a culture where people feel empowered and trusted to lead when opportunities arise.  

Once a community or project team has grown to a certain size, a more formal structure can help to ensure leadership responsibility scale accordingly to keep everyone supported.
Being clear about the roles people can take on and the commitment that is expected from them will allow people to manage expectations around skills, workload, and responsibilities.  

One way to do this is to have people commit for a certain period and re-evaluate regularly if more or other community members have emerged and should be formally recognised for their work.
The Carpentries are one example where some of the community leadership roles have been formalized and are documented in the [Carpentries' handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/index.html).

## Onboarding, Nurturing and Offboarding Gracefully

### Onboarding new leaders

<!---[this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQjRnWVmL28) and these notes https://github.com/jupytercon/2020-willingc/

Onboarding guide.
Increasing responsibility over time.--->

## Nurturing the next leaders

Leaders ought to nurture a group of people from diverse backgrounds and levels around them. 
This group will become the next leaders after some reasonable time. 

Such a group will also be a trusted source of changes and updates in data science domains. 

When too busy leading, leaders will run out of time to learn about the latest advances both at technical and human levels.  
This team keeps leaders from different blind spots and allows the projects led to transform accordingly.

Blind spots are particularly challenging in multicultural, sometimes even globally-distributed teams.

## Offboarding gracefully

Offboarding leaders gracefully, maybe using a guide, so they can step down if needed. 
Allow leaders to step down before they burn out.

Commit message:

Rephrase benefit of time limited leadership roles

book/website/collaboration/leadership/leadership-opportunities.md, after:

(cl-leadership-opportunities)=
# Creating Leadership Opportunities

While leadership opportunities can emerge, it can be helpful to create clear opportunities and invite individuals to lead.  

This can be done through inviting people for individual contributions and facilitating a culture where people feel empowered and trusted to lead when opportunities arise.  

Once a community or project team has grown to a certain size, a more formal structure can help to ensure leadership responsibility scale accordingly to keep everyone supported.
Being clear about the roles people can take on and the commitment that is expected from them will allow people to manage expectations around skills, workload, and responsibilities.  

One way to do this is to have people commit for a certain period and re-evaluate leadership regularly. 
This allows active leaders to reflect on their contributions and offboard if necessary and is an opportunity to identify if more or other community members have emerged and should be formally recognised for their work.
The Carpentries are one example where some of the community leadership roles have been formalized and are documented in the [Carpentries' handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/index.html).

## Onboarding, Nurturing and Offboarding Gracefully

### Onboarding new leaders

<!---[this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQjRnWVmL28) and these notes https://github.com/jupytercon/2020-willingc/

Onboarding guide.
Increasing responsibility over time.--->

## Nurturing the next leaders

Leaders ought to nurture a group of people from diverse backgrounds and levels around them. 
This group will become the next leaders after some reasonable time. 

Such a group will also be a trusted source of changes and updates in data science domains. 

When too busy leading, leaders will run out of time to learn about the latest advances both at technical and human levels.  
This team keeps leaders from different blind spots and allows the projects led to transform accordingly.

Blind spots are particularly challenging in multicultural, sometimes even globally-distributed teams.

## Offboarding gracefully

Offboarding leaders gracefully, maybe using a guide, so they can step down if needed. 
Allow leaders to step down before they burn out.
