book/website/collaboration/inclusive-events/inclusive-events-content-guide.md, before:

(cl-inclusive-events-accessibility-guide)=
# Accessible Content Guidance for Inclusive Event
A critical part of running an event is ensuring that the content of your event is both inclusive and accessible to people with lived experience. 

This section outlines guidance, requirements, and considerations for ensuring that both your promotional content, and your sessions and speakers' presentation content is as accessible as possible for a diverse and inclusive audience.

(cl-inclusive-events-content-accessibility)=
## Content Accessibility Guidance 
Ensuring that event communications, including printed content, are accessible to all attendees is critical.

Please review the following recommendations and ensure that any material you have designed for your event meets the accessibility requirements of your atendees. 

#### Use a size 14 (or larger) font for both digital and printed content.
- A size 14 font is the recommended size to make text information legible for a broad audience and support people with lived experience of visual impairments, and other conditions that affect readability.

#### Use a Sans Serif font such as Arial, Tahoma, Verdana, Helvetica or Monserrat.
- "Sans Serif" refers to fonts that do not have embellishments or lines on the letters.
- Using a *Serif* font such as Times New Roman can negatively impact readability and make it harder for people with dyslexia to read information. 
- Using a *Sans Serif* font is especially important for online content such as emails and websites.

#### Use high contrast colours in all content.
- The best example of high contrast colours is using dark text on a light background.
- If you are planning on using different colour palettes to create content and make communication more visually appealing, please ensure that your colours meet Accessibility Standards for Low Vision and Colour Blindness.
- You may want to consider giving speakers and presenters a guide on how to make their posters and presentations accessible if your event hosts a poster session.
#### Avoid backgrounds that have an excessive amount of colors, shapes, or graphics.
- In this manner, reading becomes more enjoyable since the text won't be overwhelmed by an overly busy background.
#### Do not embed essential information in an image.
- This includes the information about the name, date, time and location of the event, and any accessibility information.
- Images do not just mean images on a page, but also using a PNG or JPEG file type for flyers, presentation, or other content.
- Images cannot be ‘read’ by screen readers that are being used by a person with a visual impairment.
- Consider using plain text for emails and providing flyers or images as attachments that are accompanied by Alternative Text Descriptions. 

### Provide Alt-text (Alternative Text) descriptions for online images in your content.
- This is helpful for people with visual impairments that use screen readers, and is also helpful for people with low bandwidth internet where images may not load on a page.

### Avoid blinking or flashing that could cause seizures. 
- Some people find certain motions or animations to be highly distracting, and some people may even become sick from them. Therefore, consider if the motion is necessary and if it will make the material easier to understand.
#### Use the style and formating tool in text editors for headings.
- Font size by itself is not detectable by screen readers. Instead use the heading and title style tools in programs such as Microsoft Word, and Google Docs. 

### Working with Speakers
You may want to consider sending reccomendations to any speakers or session facilitators at your event. 

Consider if you and your team are able to review material submitted by speakers for your event, and what resources you have to support them in making their session content accessible for an audience of people with lived experience or accessibility needs. 

```{note}
If your event is hosted online, please note that many screen sharing and video conferencing tools are not accessible to screen reading software. 

Ensure that you provide any content that may be presented via screen sharing to attendees before the start of your event in a plain text format accompanied by alternative text descriptions of any images, graphs, or other figures. 
```

(cl-inclusive-events-website-accessibility)=
## Website Accessibility
As reccomended in the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-website` section, it can be incredibly helpful to centralize information about your event in an online location such as a website. 

If your event does decide to have a dedicated website, ensure that the site and its content meets Web Accessibility Standards. 

The [Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) provides 4 principles which provide guidance on how to ensure that websites and their content are accessible. 

We have provided a summary with actionable examples here, and you can view the full [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/fundamentals/accessibility-principles/) on the Web Accessibility Initiative's website. 

### 1. **Perceivability**
Perceivability requires that people who use and arrive at your event website are able to "perceive" all the content on the website using at least one of their senses.

This can mean ensuring that any video content is accompanied by captions, providing Alternative Text descriptions for images, and that any controls or clickable features on the site have text labels that describe the purpose of the feature.
 For example, a button labelled "Sign Up to Newsletter" or "Upload Image". 

### 2. **Operability**
Operability means that all users can control and interact with any buttons or clickable features.

To meet this requirement, ensure that any buttons are able to be interacted with and clicked through different modalities for example, a mouse, a keyboard, or voice command.
 
This is especially important for registration forms which often impose a time limit to complete them. 
Any registration forms you use for your event must have a way to extend - or turn off - the time limit function for completing the form.

If you are using an external registration website, please check the accessibility guidance of that site to ensure that this feature is enabled.
It is incredibly important for people who use screen readers and others who may need more time to read and complete a form due to dyslexia, familiarity with the event's host language, or any other reason that impacts reading and language comprehension.

Operability also requires that web pages have an informative title for the content on the page.

### 3. **Understandability** 
Understandability refers to how easy is it for a general audience to understand your website's use and content.

For example, content being written in easy read, or plain language formats. This is discussed in more depth in the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-plain-language` section below.

The Web Accessibility guidelines ask that any technical terms, jargon, idioms, slang and abbreviations be accompanied by a definition.

Ideally, your site will also contain references to a Glossary that is linked to when those words appear.
You may need to develop a Glossary specific to your event and area, or consider what Glossaries have been developed by research funding bodies or University Communications teams and provide links if applicable. 

### 4. **Robustness**.
Robustness refers to the importance of content on your event page's website being compatible with different browsers, now and in the future, and how compatible the content is with different technologies such as screen readers and other assistive technologies. 

## Conclusion
The guidance provided here is not an exhaustive list of accessibility requirments, and with all other planning of your event, it is best to work with the specific group and demographic of attendees that will be at your event. 
This can help ensure that any content accessibility requirements specific to your attendees can be identified and addressed before the start of your event.

Commit message:

Updated phrasing colour contrast
Co-authored-by: Patricia Loto <39300655+PatriLoto@users.noreply.github.com>

book/website/collaboration/inclusive-events/inclusive-events-content-guide.md, after:

(cl-inclusive-events-accessibility-guide)=
# Accessible Content Guidance for Inclusive Event
A critical part of running an event is ensuring that the content of your event is both inclusive and accessible to people with lived experience. 

This section outlines guidance, requirements, and considerations for ensuring that both your promotional content, and your sessions and speakers' presentation content is as accessible as possible for a diverse and inclusive audience.

(cl-inclusive-events-content-accessibility)=
## Content Accessibility Guidance 
Ensuring that event communications, including printed content, are accessible to all attendees is critical.

Please review the following recommendations and ensure that any material you have designed for your event meets the accessibility requirements of your atendees. 

#### Use a size 14 (or larger) font for both digital and printed content.
- A size 14 font is the recommended size to make text information legible for a broad audience and support people with lived experience of visual impairments, and other conditions that affect readability.

#### Use a Sans Serif font such as Arial, Tahoma, Verdana, Helvetica or Monserrat.
- "Sans Serif" refers to fonts that do not have embellishments or lines on the letters.
- Using a *Serif* font such as Times New Roman can negatively impact readability and make it harder for people with dyslexia to read information. 
- Using a *Sans Serif* font is especially important for online content such as emails and websites.

#### Use high contrast colours in all content.
- The best example of high contrast colours is using dark text on a light background.
- If you are planning on using different colour palettes to create content and make communication more visually appealing, please keep in mind that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 is recommended for small text (12 point) and a ratio of 3:1 for large type (18 or 14 point bold). You could check if contrast is being used correctly with these free resources: [Contrast checker](https://contrastchecker.com/) and [Deque University Contrast](https://dequeuniversity.com/color-contrast).
- You may want to consider giving speakers and presenters a guide on how to make their posters and presentations accessible if your event hosts a poster session.
#### Avoid backgrounds that have an excessive amount of colors, shapes, or graphics.
- In this manner, reading becomes more enjoyable since the text won't be overwhelmed by an overly busy background.
#### Do not embed essential information in an image.
- This includes the information about the name, date, time and location of the event, and any accessibility information.
- Images do not just mean images on a page, but also using a PNG or JPEG file type for flyers, presentation, or other content.
- Images cannot be ‘read’ by screen readers that are being used by a person with a visual impairment.
- Consider using plain text for emails and providing flyers or images as attachments that are accompanied by Alternative Text Descriptions. 

### Provide Alt-text (Alternative Text) descriptions for online images in your content.
- This is helpful for people with visual impairments that use screen readers, and is also helpful for people with low bandwidth internet where images may not load on a page.

### Avoid blinking or flashing that could cause seizures. 
- Some people find certain motions or animations to be highly distracting, and some people may even become sick from them. Therefore, consider if the motion is necessary and if it will make the material easier to understand.
#### Use the style and formating tool in text editors for headings.
- Font size by itself is not detectable by screen readers. Instead use the heading and title style tools in programs such as Microsoft Word, and Google Docs. 

### Working with Speakers
You may want to consider sending reccomendations to any speakers or session facilitators at your event. 

Consider if you and your team are able to review material submitted by speakers for your event, and what resources you have to support them in making their session content accessible for an audience of people with lived experience or accessibility needs. 

```{note}
If your event is hosted online, please note that many screen sharing and video conferencing tools are not accessible to screen reading software. 

Ensure that you provide any content that may be presented via screen sharing to attendees before the start of your event in a plain text format accompanied by alternative text descriptions of any images, graphs, or other figures. 
```

(cl-inclusive-events-website-accessibility)=
## Website Accessibility
As reccomended in the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-website` section, it can be incredibly helpful to centralize information about your event in an online location such as a website. 

If your event does decide to have a dedicated website, ensure that the site and its content meets Web Accessibility Standards. 

The [Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) provides 4 principles which provide guidance on how to ensure that websites and their content are accessible. 

We have provided a summary with actionable examples here, and you can view the full [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/fundamentals/accessibility-principles/) on the Web Accessibility Initiative's website. 

### 1. **Perceivability**
Perceivability requires that people who use and arrive at your event website are able to "perceive" all the content on the website using at least one of their senses.

This can mean ensuring that any video content is accompanied by captions, providing Alternative Text descriptions for images, and that any controls or clickable features on the site have text labels that describe the purpose of the feature.
 For example, a button labelled "Sign Up to Newsletter" or "Upload Image". 

### 2. **Operability**
Operability means that all users can control and interact with any buttons or clickable features.

To meet this requirement, ensure that any buttons are able to be interacted with and clicked through different modalities for example, a mouse, a keyboard, or voice command.
 
This is especially important for registration forms which often impose a time limit to complete them. 
Any registration forms you use for your event must have a way to extend - or turn off - the time limit function for completing the form.

If you are using an external registration website, please check the accessibility guidance of that site to ensure that this feature is enabled.
It is incredibly important for people who use screen readers and others who may need more time to read and complete a form due to dyslexia, familiarity with the event's host language, or any other reason that impacts reading and language comprehension.

Operability also requires that web pages have an informative title for the content on the page.

### 3. **Understandability** 
Understandability refers to how easy is it for a general audience to understand your website's use and content.

For example, content being written in easy read, or plain language formats. This is discussed in more depth in the {ref}`cl-inclusive-events-comms-plain-language` section below.

The Web Accessibility guidelines ask that any technical terms, jargon, idioms, slang and abbreviations be accompanied by a definition.

Ideally, your site will also contain references to a Glossary that is linked to when those words appear.
You may need to develop a Glossary specific to your event and area, or consider what Glossaries have been developed by research funding bodies or University Communications teams and provide links if applicable. 

### 4. **Robustness**.
Robustness refers to the importance of content on your event page's website being compatible with different browsers, now and in the future, and how compatible the content is with different technologies such as screen readers and other assistive technologies. 

## Conclusion
The guidance provided here is not an exhaustive list of accessibility requirments, and with all other planning of your event, it is best to work with the specific group and demographic of attendees that will be at your event. 
This can help ensure that any content accessibility requirements specific to your attendees can be identified and addressed before the start of your event.
