# TTW Core Team 3-month Check-in - 9 June 2023

:::success
Note of notes for Core/Organisational Team: https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-team-note-of-notes
:::

### Code of conduct

_The Turing Way_ Code of conduct applies to this call.
* [Take a moment to read this](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
* For any question or concern please reach out to Malvika and Anne (msharan@turing.ac.uk, asteele@turing.ac.uk).

# Agenda

## Welcome

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Schedule:**
---

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start - 5min | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome & review of agenda |
| 05 mins | Check-in & starting question |
| 05 mins | Clarifying governance progress |
| 40 mins | Guided discussion for core team (05 min solo, 10 min small group you know, 10 min small randomised group, 15 min all the group) |
| 05 mins | Gathering references & suggestions for governance |
| 5 mins | Wrap up & Next steps |

## Check-in Question (~5 minutes)

[ Anne ]

**Name + Pronouns + Team/WG/Collab with TTW + Would you be able to attend this Core Team Meeting if rescheduled for 3pm (in your timezone) on Thursdays? + an emoji for how you are feeling! (emoji cheatsheet)**

* Batool (She/Her), Localisation Team , :thumbsup: for 3pm, :honeybee: 
* Bastian + he/him + Infrastructure + yes + :tired_face: 
* Sophia (she/her), Training + Mentors (and am trying to wiggle my way into the infrastructure team), no (just had to reschedule therapy to thursday around other meetings and have limited flexibility), :honeybee: 
* Shakir (he/him) RAM Team :thumbsup:
* Gabin (he/him)  :thumbsup:
* Emma (she/her), Trainers and mentor, :thumbsdown: 12-2pm is ok for me
* Alejandro (he/him), EDS book, :thumbsup: flexible as it's only once every three months, :desert_island: 
* Ale (she/her), RPM TTW, yes
* Kirstie (she/her)
* Alden (she/her), RAM team, trainers & mentors WG, yes, :deciduous_tree: 
* David (he/him), RPM, would struggle on Thursdays (depends on the month, will make some not others until october), :sunflower: :sunglasses: :sunflower: 
* Cass (she/her), TPS, not WG yet!, can't attend Thursdays until September 2023, :sun_with_face: 
* Anne (she/her), yes
* Arielle (she/her), Programme Manager TPS, core team meeting on Thursdays at 3pm technically yes... :octopus: 
* Jim (he/him), Infrastructure WG, :+1:, ðŸ¥±
* Esther (she,her), Editors/reviewers, BookDash, Yes since only once in every three months :), :dancer: 
* Sarah, she/her, Infrastructure, yes
* Hari, he/him, yes
* Danny


## Clarifying Governance Progress (5 min)

[ Alexandra ]
*The Turing Way* Core staff delivery group (Ale, Anne, Arielle, Kirstie and Malvika) are working on the launch of an official Governance document.

Based on the pad you answered [at the community call after the Book Dash](https://pad.sfconservancy.org/p/ttw-may2023-communitycall) and [mapped conversations](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1T7rx6Kvsj7OsXkFMjOGRgNlqobGTpMaJD8fL-OFMBVc/edit#gid=0) at Coworking meetings and Collaboration Cafe, we have identified 3 main challenges about our current Governance:

| Challenge 1 | Challenge 2 | Challenge  3 |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| **Frameworks** | **Strategy** | **Culture**
| - Guidelines for WG to make decisions (Decision trees) |- Long-term Structures | - Differences & clarity about paid and volunteers team members
| - Guidelines to onboard members and structure for growth (Mountain of Engagement)     | - Short-term Structure | - TTW Funding approaches (paying non-Turing members)
| - Guidelines for engagement (Personas & Pathways)  | - Separating strategic & operational responsibilities  | - Who has the power to make decisions?

Therefore, we would like to use this meeting to:

- Share the Governance documentation documents
- Collect your impressions about *The Turing Way* Decision Making
    - Individual reflections about your experience & perceptions
    - Small Group discussions about various aspects of governance: reviewing key needs & getting feedback on sample structures 
- Ask for references about good Governance documents you have produced or came across that could be useful in preparation for The Turing Way Governance doc. 

* REMINDER: Reviewing survey (please fill out if you haven't already!): https://forms.gle/dEyWZpcMUEVbpGYm7

**Next actions:**   
* Identify the sections/headings our Governance documents will
* Develop a timeline and consult each section with community members
* **Urgent need**: Produce a governance official document  


## Guided discussion for core team (30 min)

[ Kirstie ]

Building on the 1-2-4-all Librating Format (https://www.liberatingstructures.com/1-1-2-4-all/), we will be using this time to learn more about what teams need.

### Individual question (05 minutes)

**What decisions happen in The Turing Way?**

*Please add a :hot_pepper: emoji to the decisions that most urgently need documentation or clarification*

* Examples: 
    * Who do I tag in a pull request about a topic?  
    * Who applies for conferences?
    * How do I join a working group?
* What tools do we use?
* How do we utilise GitHub?
* Who decides on who decides things in TTW?
* How are conflicts between members resolved?
* Who comes to the bookdash?
* Who sets the timelines for bookdash?
* What makes you a core member? How much time you should give away as a core member?
* Who designs the structure of the bookdask?
* Who approves images (scriberia drafts)? 
* Who gives talks about the turing way
* How to get funding to go to a conference
* What projects get accepted to bookdash
* What content ends up in the book
* Who is in the working groups
* Who designs fun new things like a new landing page?
* Who should review a PR
* Who do I _nominate_ to review a PR
* When to change a policy, process, tool (e.g. if we think something new is better)
* When a piece of work is "done" enough to submit a PR +1
* Who decides to apply for funding for The Turing Way?
* Which events does TTW sponsor?
* Who decides if content is out of scope for TTW?
* Who decides if an edit should be a new chapter or just an edit?
* Who represents TTW at conferences/events in an official capacity
* Who decides when working groups meet?
* Who writes the CoC?
* Who makes decisiosn on potential breaches of COC?
* Who enforces the CoC?
* Who is a working group accountable to?
    * Chairs, co-chairs, Core
* Who should fix a broken link if it is urgent (eg, the home page doesn't load)?
* Who should fix a broken link if it is not urgent?
* Who to consult if you want to revise or restructure a chapter? 
* Who resolves differences of opinion between the author of a PR and the reviewer? 
* How do I get further information of the funding (past, present, future) of the TTW? 
* Who merges a PR?
* Who joins coworking on Monday?
* How to manage citation/giving credit to the pulling together of ideas 
* What content is appropriate for TTW 
* Who can bring a topic to a collaboration cafe?
* Who can bring a guest to a collaboration cafe?
* How long can sections/chapters etc be? 
* What roles people have
* What events/training etc we run
* How to represent whose opinion's is reflected in a subchapter/chapter (not even resolving, just showing)?
* How funds are spent?
* How much contribution is expected from TPS team members?
* How long is too long to leave a post unasnwered in TTW Slack

### Working Group Discussions (10 min) - Set up in advance

https://cuckoo.team/ttw-core-team

Same question: **What decisions happen in The Turing Way?**
* Group 2 - Infrastructure Maintainers Team + Batool from localisation Team
    * People: Danny, Sarah, Jim, Bastian, Batool
        * What tools do we use
          * Who has the authority to choose which ones? N infrastructure maintainers may have N opinions.
          * What is the process?
          * Sarah: We need a paid team member (who doesn't need to be fulltime) who does a regular review (yearly?) of the tools that we use, and the alternatives (and how they align to our needs and values) +1
        * How do (can) we enforce/support processes through tools or automation (e.g. assigning reviewers, issue triage)
        * Blocker: 
            * Inability to access org-level settings in GitHub to self-manage ourselves, e.g., creating teams
            * Who has authority to decide whether to move to org level? 
            * What is the escalation route when you don't know how much permission you have
            * Historical/technical knowledge (who did this before, why, who is interested in this)
        * Do we have/want a BDFL?
* Group 3 - Trainers & Mentors WG
    * People: Arielle, Emma, Alden, Ale
        * how we decide who is in our group
        * Prioritizing projects
        * Help find people to give training/mentors but we don't make those decisions 
        * Are there sufficient numbers of community members now to split the working group into two groups? 
        * Feeling in the group that some would like to focus more on training aspects
        * Can we decide to split in 2 working groups, training and mentors?
        * Curating the onboarding documentation and add pathways - who goes into which working groups? Who can come into working groups?
        * Is there a pre-requisite to be added in a working group? What level of familiarity you should have with the community to lead a working group?
* Group 4 â€“Â Reviewers & Editors
    * People: Esther, Hari, Jen, Vicky
        * What are the criteria for an open issue?
        * At what point does an issue become stale?
        * Who merges a PR?
        * How mandatory are community meetings?
        * How much time should I be spending on this? How formal is the work?
        * Should we be reporting on work we do?
        * Who is in working groups?
        * How many working groups are there?
        * What counts as progress?
        * What is success - for individuals, for working groups, for the community?
        * 
* Group 5 â€“ Environmental Data Science Book, Turing Commons, Netherlands eScience Center, VU Amsterdam, TU Delft
    * People: Alejandro, Chris, Carlos, Lena, Esther
        * What do we need to report to TTW?
        * Are we a group?
        * What are the obligations? How does it differ between Turing institutes members and volunteers?
* Group 6 â€“ New staff members with TPS members to TPS & TTW Community Members
    * People: Arron, Gabin, Cassandra, Shakir, Sophia, David
        * who writes the code of conduct 
        * who decides who enforces it (mechanisms around it)
        * :hot_pepper: how do we evaluate and decide the formal time allocated by all TPS
            * how did the 10% time come about, who enforces it, revises it, and what does 10% include?
            * how does the 10% time fit with fluxuating work loads of TPS members 
        * what content is appropriate for TTW (is there alignment, curation, and revised)
        * How to acknowledge the skew of "amount" of contribution (i.e one person may have written an entire chapter vs. 10 people write 1 page). 
        * what is the goal of the model (i.e. Oxford dictionary vs Wikipedia)
        * How do we identify positionality
        * How to get stickers :rolling_on_the_floor_laughing: 


### Randomised Discussions (10 min) - Groups of 3

**What decisions are the least transparent in The Turing Way?**

* book dash acceptance +1+1
    * TPS members -- accountability to the line manager
* What is the overall objective of the Book Dash? 
    * Clarify objectives: https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/bookdash.html
* how to participate in decision making / what is appropriate to be fully open and democratic and what isn't - many decisions are very transparent. But difficult to know where to find/be in the room for. +1
    * Pathway
* funding allocation 
    * TTW team will take this on
* what an external collaboration with ttw could look like 
* relationship between the Turing Institute and The Turing Way +1 million +1+1+1+1
* who becomes core  +1
* what it means to be on the core team +1
* What the direction of the Turing Way is - what is the vision, how are we moving towards it +1
* Who is in charge +1+1
* Is anyone in charge? (should anyone be?)+1
* Is there a pathway to decide who's in charge? +1
* What talks and event opportunities are available 
* Who applies & who is given the opportunity to talk at conferences
* Who create a working group? what is expected from working group?+1
* Who can apply for funding on behalf of the project? 
* Who decide how the volunteers are recruiting to the core team? +1
* How do other working groups operate? Do they need to consult the community? How autonomous are they? +1
* Who governs the working group, can we just join a different one that aligns with our work better 
* How can a regular community member have decision making power? should they?
* How to agree consensus from the community ?
* meta point: There is a difference between not being transparent and information not being known (hard to find, not promoted, not consulted, _etc._) +1 (this was our b/o room's EXACT point) +1
* all of them?
* who do we consult for big changes e.g. Jupyter Enhancement Proposals? [democratic mediums](https://medlabboulder.gitlab.io/democraticmediums/)
    * It should definitely be a simpler process than JEPs :sweat_smile:  Django
* What are the goals of the project? What is our manifesto? Are we still/just a "reproducible, ethical and collaborative data science"? +1
* What is **not** appropriate content for the book? +1+1
    * How do we avoid becoming overly broad?
* how are people held to account?
* TTW will never be finished - but how do we define when things are out of scope and should not be added to the book? is there a point where we have all the themes or guides that are necessary and we keep building on those? +1
* 
* 
* 

### Big discussion about comments (10 min)

**What decisions does the governance document need to clarify?**

* transparency vs not being able to find things 
* acessibility vs transparency are different things
* don't want lists of lists to find things
* user experience of community contribution
* power of relationships & connections as a means of acquiring information
* difficult to manage hardcore transparency with importance of building relationships
* slack is a lot - important messages can be lost quickly (many people are in multiple workspaces)
* turing people in general say please cut down on emails
* most visible issue mentioned above is the relationship between the turing institute and the turing way (especially regarding funding allocation)
    * how can we make this relationship more clear?
* is Kirstie the BDFL? (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benevolent_dictator_for_life)
    * emergently, KW is, but written into founding documents of TTW that this should not be the case
    * upcoming governance documentation should include information about this
    * design of the turing way should be that it should be able to exist within the turing institute 
    * important to tease apart the relationship with tps & staff members
    * when should a coup happen???? (lol - jk for the reader)
    * role of power dynamics & hierarchies, and teasing out these relationships
    * up to what point does the turing way have a specific vision (that comes from the turing) and the community-led vision (coming from)
* what's the difference between being 'community-led' and being 'community-inspired' or 'community-informed'
* turing way core delivery staff will draft a version of the document to share more widely with the core team
    * role of core team is to hold the core delivery staff accountable to reporting out and listening to feedback
    * 

## Gathering references & suggestions for governance (5 min)

[ Alexandra ]

We would like to review 2-3 existing governance document that could enlighten our process. 

**What examples of project governance documents that you could be useful for The Turing Way?*** (3min)
* Examples (Note: they don't have to be only open source digitally-focused projects!)
    * Kubernetes: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md
    * Decidim: https://meta.decidim.org/assemblies/our-governance
    * Open Life Science: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pD_P8oKLenyxCM39PZxu3X8a6hZQ4jZi-fA-xBB3DXQ/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
    * Django: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/organization/
    * Social.coop: https://wiki.social.coop/wiki/Governance
        - I don't know much about it but the "loomio" system they use looks interesting
    * Brockwell Greenhouses: https://www.brockwellgreenhouses.org.uk/governance-at-bpcg/
    * data.coop (danish): https://data.coop/# 
    * An anti-recommendation [Becoming and Arch Linux Developer](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Getting_involved#Becoming_an_Arch_Developer) --- invitation only, prove your worth, get noticed
- Code for Science & Society <- their fiscal sponsorship model
- HOT OpenStreetMap: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Humanitarian_OSM_Team/Working_groups/Governance
- Wikipedia: https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Home
- Pyladies: https://pyladies.com/blog/Announcing-the-Inaugural-PyLadies-Global-Council/inaugural-pyladies-council/

***Please fill out the survey if you haven't already: https://forms.gle/dEyWZpcMUEVbpGYm7***

## Closing & Next steps (5 min)

[ Anne ]

*Feedback on this call & format*
* I very much appreciated the time for discussion (instead of everyone sharing a lot of information that could have also been shared via newsletter/issue or email)
* The hour went quickly, time flies...
