# *The Turing Way* Community Call - 28 September 2023

*This document is for the Community Call on Thursday 28 September 2023.*

Join Zoom Meeting

[https://turing-uk.zoom.us/j/93568219227?pwd=MEZaSjJzUDJqb2RtbjZCTDh2eklidz09](https://turing-uk.zoom.us/j/93568219227?pwd=MEZaSjJzUDJqb2RtbjZCTDh2eklidz09)

Meeting ID: 93568219227

Passcode: 600713


**Quick reminders**

   * *The Turing Way* participation guidelines apply to this event:
       * Code of Conduct: [https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html)
       * Contribution guideline: [https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
   * Time is provided in London Time (UTC+1). Please use this link to convert in your time zone: convert time: [https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-09-28/15:30/CommunityCall](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-09-28/15:30/CommunityCall)
   * For any question or concern please reach out to The Turing Way team by emailing turingway@turing.ac.uk, or individually reach out to Malvika, Alexandra or Anne (msharan@turing.ac.uk, asteele@turing.ac.uk, aaraujo.alvarez@turing.ac.uk).


*Name / Organisation / Turing Way area of focus (if applicable)*

   * Arielle Bennett / The Alan Turing Institute / Research Infrastructure Roles, Activism, Book Dash
   * Alexandra Araujo Alvarez / Th Alan Turing Insitute / Core staff Delivery - RPM / Book Dash / accessibility / all wg that need support
   * Kirstie Whitaker / The Alan Turing Institute / Founder and co-lead!
   * Batool Almarzouq / The Alan Turing Institute /co- lead at the localisation Team
   * Emma Karoune / The Alan Turing Institute Health Research Community Manager/ Data, research infrastructure roles, sci communications. 
   * Eirini Zormpa / The Alan Turing Institute
   * Francisco Gomez Medina / The Alan Turing Institute
   * Sydney Ambrose / The Alan Turing Institute 
   * Esther Plomp / TU Delft - Faculty of Applied Science / RDM - Research/Team Infrastructure roles  - BookDash - External partners /
   * Jen Ding / Turing Institute / chapters on data governance and licensing for AI; open source AI; RAM content on role \& stakeholder engagement
   * Vicky Hellon / Turing Institute / Currently Practioners Hub Liaison
   * Jim Madge/ Alan Turing Institute / Infrastructure
   * Liz Hare, independent dog genetics/working dog researcher, workon accessibility for TTW
   * Alejandro Coca-Castro / Alan Turing Institute / 
   * Alden Conner / Alan Turing Institute / training 
   * David Sarmiento / Alan Turing Insitute
   * Danny Garside / Infrastructure Co-Lead
   * Sarah Gibson / 2i2c / Infrastructure
   * Andrea S√°nchez-Tapia/Global Fishing Watch/translation localisation
   * Melissa Black / MetaDocencia / translation and localization

## Agenda (90 min)

#### Welcome - check-ins  [Kirstie] (5 min): Welcoming new members to the Community Call: Liz, Meli, Sydney, Fran, Kalle 

#### Start activity (10 min): Let's take some time to reflect on summer 'successes', 'appreciations' and next 'exciting tasks'

**Examples:**

   * Successes : We made good progress on Governance discussion following last Core team meeting
   * Appreciations: Thank you Kirstie for hosting coworking and Collaboration Cafes to enable these discussions, Ale for ensure clear documentation and Anne for doing research on working group
   * Exciting tasks: Accomplishing my goal of reading 15 books this year, I'm 9/15 - fingers crossed

**Your notes:**

   * Kirstie:
       * Summer success - really good progress on consolidating a new governance model for The Turing Way
       * Summer success - moving to a new github organisation! What an important infrast
       * Appreciation - we have a new data protection manager at the Turing Institute and he has been so open to understanding the challenges of working openly while also maintaining data protection considerations!
       * Next exciting task - hearing feedback from everyone here and starting to devolve governance decisions across the community
   * Batool: Massive thanks to the core team - including Kirstie, Arielle, Alex, and Malvika for all your support with the DIIF localisation grant application! Fingers crossed ü§û, we‚Äôll be rolling out a series of blog posts soon on "Embracing Opportunities and Overcoming Challenges in Localisation" with Carpentries. So excited!
   * Ale: super proud of the work done made with The PRactitioners Hub, appreciation to the liaisons of TTW PH and to Arielle, Batool and David for being such great team members. 
   * Vicky: 
       * Summer success: enjoyed working on the Genomics England Case Study for the Practioners Hub
       * Appreciate scriberia for the great illustration for my academic-industry chapter and Cami for great work on the practioners hub before they left
       * Exciting tasks: Two of the new Turing-Roche Community Scholars will be working on TTW chapters + wooohoooo!!! 
    
   * Arielle: really pleased with the progress and work we've done around research infrastructure roles, very appreciative particularly of Esther and Emma for leading on this work. Next exciting tasks involve picking up some of the open issues and revisiting the activism section, as well as continuing the revision of the project design guide and the Book Dash!
   * Fran: 
       * Appreciation to Anne Lee Steele and Jen Ding for helping me with my Book Dash application!
       * Summer Success: Joining the RAM team and getting their vote of confidence to lead PitchFest organisation :)
   * Esther: Managed to review part of the RDM chapter. Also generally managed to get through the past two months ;) 
   * 

   * Jen: 
       * Success: great TTWPH kick off in July - I really enjoyed faciliating the panel! 
       * Appreciations: to the team for the support in kickstarting the open source AI channel and discussions, which has led to the exciting tasks of putting together the Fireside Chat on "Who is building open source AI" (thanks to Arielle/Anne for co-organising!) with an awesome panel + a co-presentation with Pen @ OpenUK 
    
   * Liz: with thanks to Anne Lee Steele, we are working on an accessibility policy for TTW and hope  a draft will be ready for the November BookDash. We contunue to map out the Guide to Accessibility, I'll be helping to organize November bookDash, which I think will be lots of fun Thanks fo Malvika and Alexandra for assistance with a grant application..
   * Jim: Turing Way GitHub Org! Appreciating the rest of the infrastructure team for working on issues when I don't feel I have capacity.
   * Emma - success - we've made significant progress on the RCM paper and skills framework, appreciation goes to Malvika and Ale for help with organising data sci roles workshop.  
   * 

   * Alejandro: 
       * Summer success: completed the publication in EDS book of all team submissions for the Climate Informatics Reproducibility Challenge (CICR23) and co-chaired a Fireside chat on the Environmental Impact of Digital Research
       * Appreciations: Carlos who has led the WIP chapter on Environmental Impact of Digital Research, Anne L who was an invited speaker in CICR23 chat with the expert series, and Ale
       * Next exciting task - Connect more Turing Environment \& Sustainability Grand Challenge activities with TTW
    
   * Alden 
       * summer success - growing the RAM team and introducing new members to TTW
       * appreciations - the TTW and TTWPH team for embracing and training new RAM team members
     

   * Eirini - excited to talk about TTW to the institute where I did my PhD!
   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

     

     



#### The Turing Way Governance Exercise: "Three Level of Decision Making" (45 min)

[Kirstie] Present "Three Level of Decision Making" - Using the following Miro Board: [https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share\_link\_id=448367996190](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share\_link\_id=448367996190)  (5 min)

   * Part 1: Individual silent reflection on the Miro board (10 min - 2 x 5min): What kind of decisions should each level take? Reflections to be added directly on miro board (view only link: [https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share\_link\_id=448367996190)](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share\_link\_id=448367996190))
   * [https://miro.com/welcomeonboard/YUVrbHJTUURQeXhHTjQ2M1FtZ3VrY0hkQ21ReGE1enNmaUVTd3c5ckNoT2dmaDRpWEJTSU5EU0JVZlFiTmh4UXwzMDc0NDU3MzUxMzM0MTA3OTUxfDI=?share\_link\_id=226144661391](https://miro.com/welcomeonboard/YUVrbHJTUURQeXhHTjQ2M1FtZ3VrY0hkQ21ReGE1enNmaUVTd3c5ckNoT2dmaDRpWEJTSU5EU0JVZlFiTmh4UXwzMDc0NDU3MzUxMzM0MTA3OTUxfDI=?share\_link\_id=226144661391)
   * Part 2: Select a level and together discuss and select which decisions, or type of decisions, this level should take (10 min):


**Constitutional Level group: Take notes here which will be added to Miro board. If you can, please add your comments directly to Frame 7 - Miro board (Alden, Andrea, Bastian and Esther)**

   * Fran: Changes to the governance structure of TTW
   * Fran: Changes and voting to core team
   * SHould provide workflows about how decisions are made, they're not made there but how they are made. Those should be taking by the maintianier level: there should be a wg for funding. 
  
   * Notes from Esther: Constitutional level needs to decide how decisions are made, what are workflows?, so not all the decisions are made at the constituitonal level and can be made at the maintainer/community level.
   * For example: Constitutional level should provide the criteria to add a new book, should belong to a working group.
   * There should be a working group for funding (but how much funding is available is constitutional)
   * Who creates a workinggroup and what is a working group is constituional. 
   * Constitutional level should decide about accountability of working groups
   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 



   * **Maintainer Level group: Take notes here which will be added to Miro board. If you can, please add your comments directly to Frame 6 - Miro board (Batool, Danny, Eirini, Liz, Melissa, Sarah, Vicky)**
   * Making grants, there's experience  and it might be worth to have a policy to write grants for TTW
   * WG: who governs, who creates a wg, who is accountable for a wg
   * WG: events / bookdash
   * WG: another for automatisation, 
   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 



** Operational Level group: Take notes here which will be added to Miro board. If you can, please add your comments directly to Frame 5 - Miro board (Alejandro, Arielle, David, Fran, Jen, Jim, Sydney)**

   * Kick off questions: what operational level means - who does it include? Why can't the community just make all the decisions? 
       * If you want all community to make decisions, it still requires certain governance. 
   * Another way I think about is the maintainers are responsible for doing the work to create the structures/resources/meetings that make it easier for community members to contribute meaningfully in the time they have
   * Structure can empower people to contribute, shouldn't be a barrier  - Make sure we provide guidance to contribute
   * Rename Operational Level as it's associated to expenses, managing, etc. 
   * Agree with Fran‚Äôs point that would be helpful to have a list of activities so the community is aware of what they can be part of
   * 

   * Keep us much as possible at this level, as this is the largest group
   * 

   * 



   * Part 3: Group Discussion (30 min) - What is the general feeling about using this framework for *The Turing Way*?


   * Theres a few around working groups that I think sit between levels - specifically because the leadership is likely to issue guidance for the working groups but it's up to the working groups to organise in alignment with that guidance?
   * Some of the previous notes on decisions focus on funding and representation at conferences - Alden is writing up some decisions around this for the miro board 
   * Danny: maintainer level, CoC enforcement - if I think myself as a maintainer that shouldn't be in my place. 
       * Kirstie: responsiblities within the WG are independent. the model is thinking of taking certain aspects of responsibilities. There will be CoC WG that enforces the CoC, where it sits, that is the question
   * EK: Pathway of the people within TTW \& the balance in this particular areas, specifically talking about the working groups
       * KW: Pathways, in her head it was important to identify the which decisions we have to take and then think about pathway. Yes, how we move people throught the levels. How do we keep people where they feel more excited about is def very important. 
           * The core team is not probably going to exist when we start this structure as they will be part of WG - there is a core people who work for TTW paid for it and we fit into different roles, MS / KW, leadership and ALS/ AAA as secretariat of WG and overal support to the project
   * DG: I think one thing that would be a (surmountable) challenge about having CoC enforcement as a working group is that it would require certain responsiveness commitments, which I associate with paid members of staff (though maybe that just holds a mirror up to some things I've learnt about the capitalistic way of the world which maybe I should be trying to unlearn haha)
   * AB: Who is in the WG - that should be in the Operational level as nobody should be excluded from joining a working groups ---> highligh it in the pathways of how to join WG, how they are accountable for the maintainer level
       * KW: The Consitituional level could decide if a new GG should be created but motivated by the Operational level---> push by them, pathway to make that happen
   * BG: Difference between who make decisions but how we make decision. We should think about how to disentagle this for a moment. This distintion is confusing
   * BS: i guess what i‚Äôm trying to say is ‚Äúthe constitution‚Äù decides like ‚Äúour executive will be run by electing a president/prime minister/etc:‚Äù But: the person that is elected in that role doesn‚Äôt get to change the constitution, so that person isn‚Äôt ‚Äúon the constitutional level‚Äù, does that help at all?
   * JM: the arrows going between different level, are pathways?  Or is that the flow of ideas or influence? The sources of action, how do we expect it to work. A structure 1. you expect / 2. if you're in a WG one of your responisbilities is go back to community and check what they need. 
       * Who supports the accountability and in which direction 
   * LH: and what are the leaders' responsibilities?
       * KW: that's fitting into what Bastian is saying, we're not creating TTW from scratch. We could write a dominance model but it would be unrealistic as it would be quite unralistic of who would become a leader / funding is associated to both leaders and are related to her job. Probalby makes sense as this model as a model that works for a couple years (2) and then it will be reviewed. 
       * DG: That's the first time I'm hearing that, and I think that's useful context/framing
   * Batool: It‚Äôs tricky to figure out which decision fits where - unless we pinpoint who the Working Groups (WG) are and see how they‚Äôre interacting with both the ‚Äúoperational/community‚Äù folks and the ‚Äúconstitutional/leads‚Äù in making these decisions. They‚Äôre all intertwined - not independent.
   * AB: For transparency there's a few decisions in the "maintainers" section I actually feel should be sitting in the operational/community level, particularly when it comes to content. We need to define who is in each working group and how they work and how they interact in both directions. 
       * i think that‚Äôs quite similar to my point about it not being necessarily about people, but process
       * KW: kind of disagree, as the coherence of the whole project could be taken care of. Maintainer the style and improving it is higher up
   * Sarah: A RACI diagram with WGs, leaders, and community members might be a useful way to visualise interactions?
   * AC: Add and Ad-hoc working group  
       * KW: something similar to the CoC WG a different level of commitment to know if they 










Please add your questions/reflections from *The Turing Way* Community Call 



   * What's next? Core staff delivery group will keep on working on it and have a PR to share in a couple of week. Get feedback. 
   * We probably will have another session in Nov
   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 



**Actions / Person to take this forward**



   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 

   * 



*Thank you for joining us! Keep an eye on GitHub issues and discussions for summary. Add your notes directly on GitHub.*





