book/website/collaboration/academic-industry/case-studies-and-best-practices.md, before:

# Test

# Resources

## Best Practices

|Title and link| Journal|Year|
|--------------|--------|----|
|[Academic–industry collaborations and knowledge co-production in the social sciences](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1440783313492237)|Journal of Sociology|2013|<!--- -->
|[When Collaboration Bridges Institutions: The Impact of University–Industry Collaboration on Academic Productivity](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/orsc.2018.1235)|Organization Science|2018|<!--- -->
|[Academic Collaborations with Industry: Lessons for the Future](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1136/jim-2020-001636)|Journal of Investigative Medicine|2020|<!--- -->
|[Research Collaborations between Academia and Industry](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/4221610)|Future of Software Engineering Conference|2007|<!--- -->
|[The double-edged sword of industry collaboration: Evidence from engineering academics in the UK](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0048733315000347)|Research Policy|2015|<!--- -->
|[Mapping the field: a bibliometric analysis of the literature on university–industry collaborations](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10961-017-9637-1)|The Journal of Technology Transfer|2017|<!-- -->
|[A Spatial Temporal Exploration of Factors Motivating Academia-Industry Collaboration](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13132-021-00729-6)|Journal of the Knowledge Economy|2021|
|[Challenges and best practices in industry-academia collaborations in software engineering: A systematic literature review](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950584916301203)|Information and Software Technology|2016|
|[University‐industry collaboration: Grafting the entrepreneurial paradigm onto academic structures](https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/14601060710776734/full/html)|European Journal of Innovation Management|2007|
|[]()|||

## Case Study Writing
|Title and link|Relevance|
|--------------|---------|
|[The Turing Way Practitioners Hub / Case Study Writing Framework](https://zenodo.org/records/10000713)| This resource could be used as the backbone for case study reporting of academia-industry collaboration |

Commit message:

Added further resources useful for the subchapter case-studies-and-best-practices.md
I have added further resources to be considered for building this subchapter

book/website/collaboration/academic-industry/case-studies-and-best-practices.md, after:

# Introduction


# Resources

## Best Practices
### TTW Resources
|Title and Link|Relevance|
|--------------|---------|
|[Project Design](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/project-design/pd-overview#pd-overview)|This guide has lots of useful information that would be helpful to consider when starting a collaboration|
|[Guide to Planning a Community](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/new-community/new-community-guide#cl-new-community-guide)|The Guide to Planning a Community are helpful context to consider when creating and maintaining a collaboration|
### Academic Resources
|Title and link| Journal/Parent Resource|Year|
|--------------|--------|----|
|[Academic–industry collaborations and knowledge co-production in the social sciences](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1440783313492237)|Journal of Sociology|2013|<!--- -->
|[When Collaboration Bridges Institutions: The Impact of University–Industry Collaboration on Academic Productivity](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/orsc.2018.1235)|Organization Science|2018|<!--- -->
|[Academic Collaborations with Industry: Lessons for the Future](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1136/jim-2020-001636)|Journal of Investigative Medicine|2020|<!--- -->
|[Research Collaborations between Academia and Industry](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/4221610)|Future of Software Engineering Conference|2007|<!--- -->
|[The double-edged sword of industry collaboration: Evidence from engineering academics in the UK](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0048733315000347)|Research Policy|2015|<!--- -->
|[Mapping the field: a bibliometric analysis of the literature on university–industry collaborations](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10961-017-9637-1)|The Journal of Technology Transfer|2017|<!-- -->
|[A Spatial Temporal Exploration of Factors Motivating Academia-Industry Collaboration](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13132-021-00729-6)|Journal of the Knowledge Economy|2021|
|[Challenges and best practices in industry-academia collaborations in software engineering: A systematic literature review](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950584916301203)|Information and Software Technology|2016|
|[University‐industry collaboration: Grafting the entrepreneurial paradigm onto academic structures](https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/14601060710776734/full/html)|European Journal of Innovation Management|2007|

## Case Study Writing
### TTW Resources
|Title and link|Relevance|
|--------------|---------|
|[The Turing Way Practitioners Hub / Case Study Writing Framework](https://zenodo.org/records/10000713)| This resource could be used as the backbone for case study reporting of academia-industry collaboration. However, it won't be completed until January 2024 |<!--- -->
|[TTW Case Study Template](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/tree/main/book/templates/case-study-template)|This resource could be used as the backbone for case study reporting of academic-industry collaboration|
