book/website/collaboration/new-community/virtual-onboarding.md, before:

# Preparing to onboard a new member in your project: virtual environments/remote working

## Why virtual onboarding matters :computer:

Joining a new group virtually is a very different experience to joining in person, and it can be hard to know if someone is struggling or isolated. 
 
You can help to make this experience less overwhelming by having a clear onboarding plan and resources. 

## Introducing the team 	:wave:

It can be intimidating to be the first to speak as a new member - consider asking your team to do a "who's who" and introduce themselves first in meetings.

Names and roles are also easy to forget, particulary if we aren't seeing people in the office every day. It can be helpful to store this information somewhere, for example, by sending around an introductory email.

Also consider organising an online social, such as a video game or escape room to help new members integrate into the group. 

## Support

Buddy - informal peer support
Mentor - more formal support

* Helps the new joiner understand group norms by asking any sensitive questions

## Onboarding document guidelines :open_book:

Your project can have an onboarding document or manual. This creates a set of shared expectations, and acts as a reference for new members to find information about resources, or who to ask for help if they have a problem.

### Suggested sections and content:

#### Group culture

Every group or workplace has a different culture, and expectations aren't always clear when a new member joins. You can help them settle in by making the culture clear here. 

This can be especially important for people who experience discrimination - do they know that they can approach you and be listened to if they experience harrassment or discrimination?

Group culture sections can include:
* What members of the group can expect from you - turn around times for feedback, support.
* What you expect from members of the group - time keeping, communication. This may vary between different roles.
* Expectations for working hours.
* Equality, inclusion and diversity statement.
* Open science and how you expect the group to practice this.

#### Key contacts

It can be hard to ask for help, particulary when working remotely - you can't just lean over to the person at the next desk and ask! 

Key contacts could include:
* Group technicians/managers
* Key collaborators, and info on what areas of the project they are involved in.
* IT - include detail - is there a form, or a specific person to email?


#### Communication :mailbox:

- Preferred method of communications, _for example. email, video call, message_
- Ensure any communication preferences are ..communicated.. from the beginning


#### How to access shared documents

- What method of sharing is preferred? _for example google docs, RMarkdown, shared documents over email, GitHub, OneDrive_ 
- Ensure invitations are set up for calendar meetings and access is in place

#### Expectations in meetings

- Individuals may not have adequate access to equipment / internet. Discussions about whether any support is required for home setup (for example webcams, microphone, laptop) can allow for any needs to be addressed.
- Meeting etiquette - learning expectations for different meetings can be overwhelming for a new starter. Clearly outlining expected attendance and contribution can help overcome this, _for example are attendees required to read the papers prior to journal club? Are attendees asked to present their work regularly? Are you expecting videos to be on?_
- Meeting times - consider the circumstances of your group when organising regular meetings - does everyone have the same opportunity to attend? _for example some groups try to arrange Athena SWAN meeting times, whereby meetings occur between 10-3, meaning that those with children are more able to attend these_.


#### Training
On tools the group uses often - eg github

* Use Zenodo or similar to host training materials for easier sharing 
* Use a Youtube channel to store induction & training for people to watch in their own time
* Consider running training & induction sessions every 2-3 months as new people join
* Consider a Slack channel for new joiners - for questions and discussion 
* Consider providing Office Hours to support new joiners using new tools - for example github
* Get feedback on your training
* Try and make your training session as interactive as possible with exercises 

#### Resources 

* Link to the group website/twitter
* Links to other resource - institution wellbeing services.

#### Glossary

Are there any weird acronyms in your field/group?
Consider sharing them with new members - then they'll know exactly what obscure software you're refering to!

## Further reading
A [survey from the University of Birmingham](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/Documents/college-social-sciences/business/research/wirc/epp-working-from-home-COVID-19-lockdown.pdf), conducted between mid-May and mid-June on home and work-life experiences throughout lockdown.

Example lab manuals: *insert link here*

**Reference**

See [The Turing Way templates](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/tree/master/book/templates/chapter-template) for more guidance.

Commit message:

Added example of a lab manual
Asked permission to reference Whelan Lab manual, have added the link.
Also couple of changes to match Turing way style guide.

book/website/collaboration/new-community/virtual-onboarding.md, after:

# Preparing to onboard a new member in your project: virtual environments/remote working

## Why virtual onboarding matters :computer:

Joining a new group virtually is a very different experience to joining in person, and it can be hard to know if someone is struggling or isolated. 
 
You can help to make this experience less overwhelming by having a clear onboarding plan and resources. 

## Introducing the team 	:wave:

It can be intimidating to be the first to speak as a new member - consider asking your team to do a "who's who" and introduce themselves first in meetings.

Names and roles are also easy to forget, particulary if we aren't seeing people in the office every day. 
It can be helpful to store this information somewhere, for example, by sending around an introductory email.

Also consider organising an online social, such as a video game or escape room to help new members integrate into the group. 

## Support

You can provide one-on-one support - such as a buddy for informal peer support, or a mentor, for more formal support.
This elps the new joiner understand group norms, and allows them to ask any sensitive questions they wouldn't like to raise in a group discussion.

## Onboarding document guidelines :open_book:

Your project can have an onboarding document or manual. 
This creates a set of shared expectations, and acts as a reference for new members to find information about resources, or who to ask for help if they have a problem.

### Suggested sections and content:

#### Group culture

Every group or workplace has a different culture, and expectations aren't always clear when a new member joins. 
You can help them settle in by making the culture clear here. 

This can be especially important for people who experience discrimination - do they know that they can approach you and be listened to if they experience harrassment or discrimination?

Group culture sections can include:
* What members of the group can expect from you - turn around times for feedback, support.
* What you expect from members of the group - time keeping, communication. This may vary between different roles.
* Expectations for working hours.
* Equality, inclusion and diversity statement.
* Open science and how you expect the group to practice this.

#### Key contacts

It can be hard to ask for help, particulary when working remotely - you can't just lean over to the person at the next desk and ask! 

Key contacts could include:
* Group technicians/managers
* Key collaborators, and info on what areas of the project they are involved in.
* IT - include detail - is there a form, or a specific person to email?


#### Communication :mailbox:

- Preferred method of communications, _for example. email, video call, message_
- Ensure any communication preferences are ..communicated.. from the beginning


#### How to access shared documents

- What method of sharing is preferred? _for example google docs, RMarkdown, shared documents over email, GitHub, OneDrive_ 
- Ensure invitations are set up for calendar meetings and access is in place

#### Expectations in meetings

- Individuals may not have adequate access to equipment / internet. 
Discussions about whether any support is required for home setup (for example webcams, microphone, laptop) can allow for any needs to be addressed.
- Meeting etiquette - learning expectations for different meetings can be overwhelming for a new starter. 
Clearly outlining expected attendance and contribution can help overcome this, _for example are attendees required to read the papers prior to journal club? Are attendees asked to present their work regularly? Are you expecting videos to be on?_
- Meeting times - consider the circumstances of your group when organising regular meetings - does everyone have the same opportunity to attend? _for example some groups try to arrange Athena SWAN meeting times, whereby meetings occur between 10-3, meaning that those with children are more able to attend these_.


#### Training
On tools the group uses often - eg github

* Use Zenodo or similar to host training materials for easier sharing 
* Use a Youtube channel to store induction & training for people to watch in their own time
* Consider running training & induction sessions every 2-3 months as new people join
* Consider a Slack channel for new joiners - for questions and discussion 
* Consider providing Office Hours to support new joiners using new tools - for example github
* Get feedback on your training
* Try and make your training session as interactive as possible with exercises 

#### Resources 

* Link to the group website/twitter
* Links to other resource - institution wellbeing services.

#### Glossary

Are there any weird acronyms in your field/group?
Consider sharing them with new members - then they'll know exactly what obscure software you're refering to!

## Further reading
A [survey from the University of Birmingham](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/Documents/college-social-sciences/business/research/wirc/epp-working-from-home-COVID-19-lockdown.pdf), conducted between mid-May and mid-June on home and work-life experiences throughout lockdown.

An [example group manual from the Whelan Lab] (https://fionajanewhelan.wixsite.com/home/manual)

**Reference**

See [The Turing Way templates](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/tree/master/book/templates/chapter-template) for more guidance.
