book/website/community-handbook/onboarding-offboarding/offboarding-core-team.md, before:

(ch-core-team-offboarding-checklist)=
# Core Team Offboarding Checklist

🌙 **We are sad to see you leave *The Turing Way* Core Team!** 🌙

This docum

## Accounts and Permissions
- [ ] Remove from #ttw-core-team channel on Slack
- [ ] Change [TTW Github repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) permissions as needed
- [ ] Add to 'Alumni' section of [Ways of Working](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md) page on TTW Github repository 
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from HackMD team for The Turing Way
- [ ] (If applicable) Give Accounts/Password Access on Keybase
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
    - [ ] Remove email from [promotion pack](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1mzGmbJkPnP5q1goQesxDc_E5zAPL0eTF) folder
    - [ ] Remove email from [conference talks/workshop applications](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1eNHq9sXq6Z8Q5Ep0MzNS0GsB3FKgTi3E) folder
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from [Core Team Google group](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/core-team-2022) (currently dormant)
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Canva team
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Penpot team
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Keybase group

## Personal information
- [ ] Move information on [TTW Team slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeQ_gg5tOJVhOA4aSnVumsowD-bfRFEroWfGsxxaGCw/edit#slide=id.g1aee8e18598_0_0) to 'Alumni' section
- [ ] (If applicable) remove [TTW project page](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/turing-way) on Alan Turing website
- [ ] (If applicable) remove yourself to [TPS/Whitaker Lab slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g-plncmi00FK97QuYDfqq7oPzUmL0xkHm1hy4X81IX8/edit#slide=id.gf5e62e1b31_1_0)

## Events & Calendars
- [ ] Remove from TTW Community Calendars
    - [ ] The Turing Way Community (public-facing)
    - [ ] The Turing Way Core Team (internal)
- [ ] Remove from calendar invites for The Turing Way core team
    - [ ] Coworking Calls
    - [ ] Collaboration Cafes
    - [ ] Fireside Chat
    - [ ] Community Calls

If applicable, see [TPS Project Management Repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/tps-project-management) about being onboarded onto the Tools, Practices, and Systems programme more broadly at the Alan Turing Institute. Other research teams and/or groups may have their own onboarding practices and/or repositories (i.e. the [Research Application Manager (RAM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management) or [Community Management (CM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/open-community-building)).

## Documenting your Experiences

We understand that wrapping up chapters and projects with _The Turing Way_ may take some time! 

If you need support completing your tasks, please reach out to the Research Community Manager or Research Project Manager to help support you through the process. 

They can schedule an offboarding call with you in order to help document your work with _The Turing Way_ community. 

Remember, everyone has expertise to share – and documentation will help us to ensure that others can learn from your experiences too.

We ask that you please update your [Record of Contributions](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/contributors-record.html) to document your experiences with contributing to _The Turing Way_.

## Celebrating your Contributions

Thank you so much for all your contributions to *The Turing Way*. We really appreciate you sharing your time and expertise with us in this community!

The Research Community Manager or Research Project Manager will reach out to discuss how to celebrate you in a way you prefer. 

We are hoping to develop a "emiritus" or "(Developing 'emeritus' community member programme? Any way of accounting for this?)

Remember, you can always re-engage with the community if you are interested in re-joining the project. You are always welcome!

Commit message:

updated and added qualifying tip

book/website/community-handbook/onboarding-offboarding/offboarding-core-team.md, after:

(ch-core-team-offboarding-checklist)=
# Core Team Offboarding Checklist

🌙 **We are sad to see you leave *The Turing Way* Core Team!** 🌙

```{admonition} Note
:class: tip
This document was prepared and shared from 2022-2023 for 10-15 community members who were identified to have a leadership role within the community, either transitioning out or stepping out of that role. At the time, this group was called the "Core Team" of _The Turing Way_, used as umbrella term for all community members who have taken on an maintenance role within the community.

This onboarding checklist is no longer in active use, it has been added to the Community Handbook for archival purposes. 
```

## Accounts and Permissions
- [ ] Remove from #ttw-core-team channel on Slack
- [ ] Change [TTW Github repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) permissions as needed
- [ ] Add to 'Alumni' section of [Ways of Working](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md) page on TTW Github repository 
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from HackMD team for The Turing Way
- [ ] (If applicable) Give Accounts/Password Access on Keybase
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
    - [ ] Remove email from [promotion pack](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1mzGmbJkPnP5q1goQesxDc_E5zAPL0eTF) folder
    - [ ] Remove email from [conference talks/workshop applications](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1eNHq9sXq6Z8Q5Ep0MzNS0GsB3FKgTi3E) folder
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from [Core Team Google group](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/core-team-2022) (currently dormant)
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Canva team
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Penpot team
- [ ] (If applicable) Remove from Keybase group

## Personal information
- [ ] Move information on [TTW Team slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeQ_gg5tOJVhOA4aSnVumsowD-bfRFEroWfGsxxaGCw/edit#slide=id.g1aee8e18598_0_0) to 'Alumni' section
- [ ] (If applicable) remove [TTW project page](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/turing-way) on Alan Turing website
- [ ] (If applicable) remove yourself to [TPS/Whitaker Lab slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g-plncmi00FK97QuYDfqq7oPzUmL0xkHm1hy4X81IX8/edit#slide=id.gf5e62e1b31_1_0)

## Events & Calendars
- [ ] Remove from TTW Community Calendars
    - [ ] The Turing Way Community (public-facing)
    - [ ] The Turing Way Core Team (internal)
- [ ] Remove from calendar invites for The Turing Way core team
    - [ ] Coworking Calls
    - [ ] Collaboration Cafes
    - [ ] Fireside Chat
    - [ ] Community Calls

If applicable, see [TPS Project Management Repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/tps-project-management) about being onboarded onto the Tools, Practices, and Systems programme more broadly at the Alan Turing Institute. Other research teams and/or groups may have their own onboarding practices and/or repositories (i.e. the [Research Application Manager (RAM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management) or [Community Management (CM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/open-community-building)).

## Documenting your Experiences

We understand that wrapping up chapters and projects with _The Turing Way_ may take some time! 

If you need support completing your tasks, please reach out to the Research Community Manager or Research Project Manager to help support you through the process. 

They can schedule an offboarding call with you in order to help document your work with _The Turing Way_ community. 

Remember, everyone has expertise to share – and documentation will help us to ensure that others can learn from your experiences too.

We ask that you please update your [Record of Contributions](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/contributors-record.html) to document your experiences with contributing to _The Turing Way_.

## Celebrating your Contributions

Thank you so much for all your contributions to *The Turing Way*. We really appreciate you sharing your time and expertise with us in this community!

The Research Community Manager or Research Project Manager will reach out to discuss how to celebrate you in a way you prefer. 

We are hoping to develop a "emiritus contributor programme" or other means of keeping you involved in our community moving forward.

Remember, you can always re-engage with us if you are interested in re-joining the project. You are always welcome!
