book/website/community-handbook/onboarding-offboarding/onboarding-core-team.md, before:

(ch-core-team-onboarding-checklist)=
# Main Offboarding Checklist

**☀️ Welcome to *The Turing Way* Core Team!☀️**

```{admonition} Note
:class: tip
This document was prepared and shared from 2022-2023 for 10-15 community members who were identified to have a leadership role within the community. At the time, this group was called the "Core Team" of _The Turing Way_, used as umbrella term for all community members who have taken on an maintenance role within the community.

This may have included the following:
- Chairs or co-chairs of working groups within the community
- Organisers of events such as Book Dashes
- Staff members of the Alan Turing Institute leading on different initiatives

This onboarding checklist is no longer in active use, it has been added to the Community Handbook for archival purposes. 
```

## Accounts and Permissions
- [ ] Add to #ttw-core-team channel on Slack
- [ ] Add to [TTW Github repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) with "Maintainer" permissions (change as needed for role)
- [ ] Add to [Ways of Working](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md) page on TTW Github repository 
- [ ] Share [zenodo link for The Turing Way community](https://zenodo.org/communities/the-turing-way/?page=1&size=20) 
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to HackMD team for The Turing Way
- [ ] (If applicable) Give Accounts/Password Access on Keybase
- [ ] (If applicable) Add directly to [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
    - [ ] Share [promotion pack](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1mzGmbJkPnP5q1goQesxDc_E5zAPL0eTF) folder
    - [ ] Share [conference talks/workshop applications](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1eNHq9sXq6Z8Q5Ep0MzNS0GsB3FKgTi3E) folder
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to [Core Team Google group](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/core-team-2022) (currently dormant)
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Canva team
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Penpot team
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Keybase group

## About yourself
- [ ] Add your information to [TTW Team slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeQ_gg5tOJVhOA4aSnVumsowD-bfRFEroWfGsxxaGCw/edit#slide=id.g1aee8e18598_0_0)
- [ ] (If applicable) add yourself to [TTW project page](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/turing-way) on Alan Turing website
- [ ] (If applicable) add yourself to [TPS/Whitaker Lab slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g-plncmi00FK97QuYDfqq7oPzUmL0xkHm1hy4X81IX8/edit#slide=id.gf5e62e1b31_1_0)
- [ ] Introduce yourself on the Turing Way slack (in #introductions)

## Events & Calendars

- [ ] Give links to TTW Community Calendars
    - [ ] The Turing Way Community (public-facing)
    - [ ] The Turing Way Core Team (internal)
- [ ] Add to calendar invites for The Turing Way core team
    - [ ] Coworking Calls
    - [ ] Collaboration Cafes
    - [ ] Fireside Chat
    - [ ] Community Calls

## Communication Channels + Platforms
- [ ] Share links
    - [ ] [Slack](https://theturingway.slack.com/)
    - [ ] [Twitter](https://twitter.com/turingway)
    - [ ] [Mastodon](fosstodon.org/turingway)
    - [ ] [Newsletter](https://buttondown.email/turingway/)
    - [ ] [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/the-turing-way/)
- [ ] Useful Links/Information Hub
    - [ ] [Core Team note of notes](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-team-note-of-notes)

If applicable, see [TPS Project Management Repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/tps-project-management) about being onboarded onto the Tools, Practices, and Systems programme more broadly at the Alan Turing Institute. Other research teams and/or groups may have their own onboarding practices and/or repositories (i.e. the [Research Application Manager (RAM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management) or [Community Management (CM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/open-community-building)).

## Useful links
- [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
- [Community Handbook](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/community-handbook.html)
- [TTW Guide to Using Slack](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-slack-intro)
- [TTW Github repository guide](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19IfeIxtWQpDglzfOY8vpq6TFhM1jEJa1OnNdAYWjzg8/edit#gid=1136871433)
- [TTW Translation Github team](https://github.com/TWTranslation)

Commit message:

add in link for onboarding from ATI

book/website/community-handbook/onboarding-offboarding/onboarding-core-team.md, after:

(ch-core-team-onboarding-checklist)=
# Main Offboarding Checklist

**☀️ Welcome to *The Turing Way* Core Team!☀️**

```{admonition} Note
:class: tip
This document was prepared and shared from 2022-2023 for 10-15 community members who were identified to have a leadership role within the community. At the time, this group was called the "Core Team" of _The Turing Way_, used as umbrella term for all community members who have taken on an maintenance role within the community.

This may have included the following:
- Chairs or co-chairs of working groups within the community
- Organisers of events such as Book Dashes
- Staff members of the Alan Turing Institute leading on different initiatives

This onboarding checklist is no longer in active use, it has been added to the Community Handbook for archival purposes. 
```

## Accounts and Permissions
- [ ] Add to #ttw-core-team channel on Slack
- [ ] Add to [TTW Github repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) with "Maintainer" permissions (change as needed for role)
- [ ] Add to [Ways of Working](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md) page on TTW Github repository 
- [ ] Share [zenodo link for The Turing Way community](https://zenodo.org/communities/the-turing-way/?page=1&size=20) 
- [ ] (If applicable) Read [Onboarding guidebook and Information for New Starters](https://mathison.turing.ac.uk/Interact/Pages/Section/ContentListing.aspx?subsection=3363) at the Alan Turing Institute
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to HackMD team for The Turing Way
- [ ] (If applicable) Give Accounts/Password Access on Keybase
- [ ] (If applicable) Add directly to [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
    - [ ] Share [promotion pack](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1mzGmbJkPnP5q1goQesxDc_E5zAPL0eTF) folder
    - [ ] Share [conference talks/workshop applications](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1eNHq9sXq6Z8Q5Ep0MzNS0GsB3FKgTi3E) folder
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to [Core Team Google group](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/core-team-2022) (currently dormant)
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Canva team
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Penpot team
- [ ] (If applicable) Add to Keybase group

## About yourself
- [ ] Add your information to [TTW Team slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeQ_gg5tOJVhOA4aSnVumsowD-bfRFEroWfGsxxaGCw/edit#slide=id.g1aee8e18598_0_0)
- [ ] (If applicable) add yourself to [TTW project page](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/turing-way) on Alan Turing website
- [ ] (If applicable) add yourself to [TPS/Whitaker Lab slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g-plncmi00FK97QuYDfqq7oPzUmL0xkHm1hy4X81IX8/edit#slide=id.gf5e62e1b31_1_0)
- [ ] Introduce yourself on the Turing Way slack (in #introductions)

## Events & Calendars

- [ ] Give links to TTW Community Calendars
    - [ ] The Turing Way Community (public-facing)
    - [ ] The Turing Way Core Team (internal)
- [ ] Add to calendar invites for The Turing Way core team
    - [ ] Coworking Calls
    - [ ] Collaboration Cafes
    - [ ] Fireside Chat
    - [ ] Community Calls

## Communication Channels + Platforms
- [ ] Share links
    - [ ] [Slack](https://theturingway.slack.com/)
    - [ ] [Twitter](https://twitter.com/turingway)
    - [ ] [Mastodon](fosstodon.org/turingway)
    - [ ] [Newsletter](https://buttondown.email/turingway/)
    - [ ] [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/the-turing-way/)
- [ ] Useful Links/Information Hub
    - [ ] [Core Team note of notes](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-team-note-of-notes)

If applicable, see [TPS Project Management Repository](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/tps-project-management) about being onboarded onto the Tools, Practices, and Systems programme more broadly at the Alan Turing Institute. Other research teams and/or groups may have their own onboarding practices and/or repositories (i.e. the [Research Application Manager (RAM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management) or [Community Management (CM) team](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/open-community-building)).

## Useful links
- [The Turing Way Core Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bdjA-fBotMi9CnjDqu84d5hPZWwjgi-x)
- [Community Handbook](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/community-handbook.html)
- [TTW Guide to Using Slack](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/ttw-slack-intro)
- [TTW Github repository guide](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19IfeIxtWQpDglzfOY8vpq6TFhM1jEJa1OnNdAYWjzg8/edit#gid=1136871433)
- [TTW Translation Github team](https://github.com/TWTranslation)
