book/website/foreword/governance.md, before:

(fw-governance)=
# Governance

```{note}
This chapter is under review.
```

The governance body of _The Turing Way_ is represented by the project leadership and volunteer community leaders from the community who are involves in various formal and informal initiatives.

> Governance is a set of formal and informal practices through which an organisation sets goals, assigns responsibilities, establishes systems, and assesses outcomes of organisational action.

## Three Level of Decision Making

In 2023-2024, _The Turing Way_ adopted three institutional "levels", originally described in the context of Studies of the institutional design of natural resource commons, to describe three broad levels of formal and informal norms that affects decision making {cite}`Schweik2007commons`, {cite}`Ostrom2005commons`.

1. The “Community level" ("Operational-level”) norms that influence the everyday decisions and actions made by community members such in participating in the community and contributing to the book.
2. The "Maintenance" (“Collective choice") norms that allow different groups of people to come together to work on and promote specific area/initiative in the project as well as define/change process to make operational level participation easier. 
3. The "Constitutional-level" norms are followed by project leaders who are allowed to change/approve collective choice rules and establish procedures for those decisions. They also are responsible for the project-related responsibilities that affect the whole of the project, community and their sustainability.

Each level of decision-making norms should inform and influence each other through governance processes that enable transparency in the system through regular and open interactions.

Below, we describe these three levels of decision making in the context of _The Turing Way_, inputs for which were invited from open discussions with our community members ([follow Miro board for details](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share_link_id=810801549803)).
This model was presented in a Community Forum in February 2024, recording for which is shared below.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WzzfaSQQL1w?si=76j7P-MFJbfGWgLQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

(_This is a recording from the first public Community Forum hosted in February 2024. Modelled off a political town hall event, these online sessions are an opportunity to better understand activities across the project and how decisions are made. Our aim is to leverage the expertise across our community, and we explicitly invite you to review our processes and recommend improvements._)

Irrespective of how deeply one would like to engage in _The Turing Way_, we have roles and opportunities for different levels of participation, skill building and pathways to leadership.
We discuss these roles and opportunities, so that you can identify the best level of engagement for yourself in the project and our community.

We want to ensure that all roles are recognised and valued in _The Turing Way_.
Therefore, from the onset, we have worked to define these different paths for engagement, support and acknowledgement for community members in _The Turing Way_.
You can read the details in our community handbook in the [acknowledging contributors](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/acknowledgement) chapter.

## 1. Community Level

This level encompasses all members of *The Turing Way* community, both longstanding and new.
Members may have made contributions to the book, participated in an event or simply engaged as book users, social media followers, Slack Workspace members or as independent advocates of _The Turing Way_.

```{admonition} Reminder
Participation in _The Turing Way_ doesn’t only involve contributions to the Book.
```

Decisions and activities undertaken by Community Level members may include the following: 
* Making individual contributions such as creating an issue, fixing a bug, committing a change on existing chapters, and reviewing Pull Requests.
* Joining and inviting new individuals to community meetings such as Collaborations Cafe and Co-working sessions.
* Presenting about *The Turing Way* at an event.
* Initiating a conversation or pose a question in *The Turing Way* community channels.
* Suggesting content for _The Turing Way_ Newsletter.
* Applying to participate in the bi-annual Turing Way Book Dashes.
* Proposing an idea for training session or community events.
* Propose a new working group.
* Writing a new chapter.
* Establishing an informal collaboration.
* Other things that you can do as individuals.

We have discuss specific roles under this level in {ref}`fw-community`.

## 2. Maintainer Level

This level includes two types of members.  
    
### _The Turing Way_ Working Groups

Within *The Turing Way*, {ref}`Working Groups (or WGs)<subprojects>` are formed by a small groups of people who work together on specific topics, themes, or types of work identified by community members as areas of interest. 
From the onset, different kinds of work in *The Turing Way* project have been led and executed by different groups of people.
For example, since 2020, localisation and translation work is being carrying out by a group international community members, who although initially worked in an ad-hoc manner, later were named and recognised as 'Translation and Localisation Team'.
Similarly, in 2021, after moving Book Dash as online-first event, a 'Book Dash Planning Committee' was convened yearly joined by a few previous attendees of Book Dashes who supported the planning and delivery of the event.
Nonetheless, formation of WGs had largely remained informal: after existing streams of work had been identified, community members engaged with the work were formally recognised and encouraged to develop ways of working that align with their needs.

However, as the community has grown, WGs have been more formally established and explicit pathways are being created to formalise WGs, details for which are shared in the Community Handbook ([see preview](https://deploy-preview-3499--the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/working-groups)).

Current working groups are organised to provide leadership across the following areas of work:
* Localisation and Translation
* Accessibility
* Infrastructure
* Book Dash

You can find details about these members in our [ways of working document](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).

### Project Delivery Team

_The Turing Way_ {ref}`Project Delivery Team Members<fw-community-delivery-team>` are staff members hired to take on responsibilities for delivering and maintaining work, for example, Research Community Manager and Research Project Manager.
Project leads may offer support at maintenance level , but decision-making at this level must stay with the community and stewards of the community, including the Research Project Manager.

Decisions that **Collective Choice or Maintainer Level** members make include the following:

* Setting up, leading or representing a Working Group in different types of roles as leads, co-leads, secretary and contributing members. 
* Facilitating the creation of a new working group
* Decisions for planning and hosting the working group meetings and recurrence of the meetings.
* Organising and distributing the responsibilities within each working group.
* Proposing which conferences to participate in or apply to represent their work in _The Turing Way_
* Proposing which funding proposals or responding to a call for applications to support their work in _The Turing Way_
* Suggesting changes in ongoing processes or current working models through discussions
* Organising a [Fireside Chat](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/fireside-chat.html) in conversation with the project delivery team
* Clarifying unclear processes in that guide the work of a Working Group
* Escalating issues that can not be addressed at maintainer level

## 3. Constitutional-level

Strategic decisions and significant changes in the project, such as leadership, recruitment, goals, governance and funding.
As of 2024, the constitutional level decision making sits with the project leads, Kirstie Whitaker and Malvika Sharan.
Their aspiration is to move decision-making power to the community through process development through which more community representation, perspectives and inputs can be brought at this level.
Ideally, the chairs/representatives/leads of Working Groups will join this level in the near future.

In the future, this can be further 

- Providing leadership and strategic directions in the project.
- Applying for core funding, and approving expenses.
- Building clarity around budget and resource available for the maintainers and community members.
- Proposing new directions of the community
- Include a Advisory group
- Process whereby the co-chairs of the working gourps have an accountability meeting to represent their level 
- Leadership team would be Co-chairs and working group leads
- Each working group will have policy documentation in place to make decision, and payment options (if they apply)
- Advisory group could help in recommending funding options

You can find details about these members in our [ways of working document](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).

Commit message:

add warning signs for chapters that need review

book/website/foreword/governance.md, after:

(fw-governance)=
# Governance

```{warning}
This chapter is under review.
```

The governance body of _The Turing Way_ is represented by the project leadership and volunteer community leaders from the community who are involves in various formal and informal initiatives.

> Governance is a set of formal and informal practices through which an organisation sets goals, assigns responsibilities, establishes systems, and assesses outcomes of organisational action.

## Three Level of Decision Making

In 2023-2024, _The Turing Way_ adopted three institutional "levels", originally described in the context of Studies of the institutional design of natural resource commons, to describe three broad levels of formal and informal norms that affects decision making {cite}`Schweik2007commons`, {cite}`Ostrom2005commons`.

1. The “Community level" ("Operational-level”) norms that influence the everyday decisions and actions made by community members such in participating in the community and contributing to the book.
2. The "Maintenance" (“Collective choice") norms that allow different groups of people to come together to work on and promote specific area/initiative in the project as well as define/change process to make operational level participation easier. 
3. The "Constitutional-level" norms are followed by project leaders who are allowed to change/approve collective choice rules and establish procedures for those decisions. They also are responsible for the project-related responsibilities that affect the whole of the project, community and their sustainability.

Each level of decision-making norms should inform and influence each other through governance processes that enable transparency in the system through regular and open interactions.

Below, we describe these three levels of decision making in the context of _The Turing Way_, inputs for which were invited from open discussions with our community members ([follow Miro board for details](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMnA6G50=/?share_link_id=810801549803)).
This model was presented in a Community Forum in February 2024, recording for which is shared below.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WzzfaSQQL1w?si=76j7P-MFJbfGWgLQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

(_This is a recording from the first public Community Forum hosted in February 2024. Modelled off a political town hall event, these online sessions are an opportunity to better understand activities across the project and how decisions are made. Our aim is to leverage the expertise across our community, and we explicitly invite you to review our processes and recommend improvements._)

Irrespective of how deeply one would like to engage in _The Turing Way_, we have roles and opportunities for different levels of participation, skill building and pathways to leadership.
We discuss these roles and opportunities, so that you can identify the best level of engagement for yourself in the project and our community.

We want to ensure that all roles are recognised and valued in _The Turing Way_.
Therefore, from the onset, we have worked to define these different paths for engagement, support and acknowledgement for community members in _The Turing Way_.
You can read the details in our community handbook in the [acknowledging contributors](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/acknowledgement) chapter.

## 1. Community Level

This level encompasses all members of *The Turing Way* community, both longstanding and new.
Members may have made contributions to the book, participated in an event or simply engaged as book users, social media followers, Slack Workspace members or as independent advocates of _The Turing Way_.

```{admonition} Reminder
Participation in _The Turing Way_ doesn’t only involve contributions to the Book.
```

Decisions and activities undertaken by Community Level members may include the following: 
* Making individual contributions such as creating an issue, fixing a bug, committing a change on existing chapters, and reviewing Pull Requests.
* Joining and inviting new individuals to community meetings such as Collaborations Cafe and Co-working sessions.
* Presenting about *The Turing Way* at an event.
* Initiating a conversation or pose a question in *The Turing Way* community channels.
* Suggesting content for _The Turing Way_ Newsletter.
* Applying to participate in the bi-annual Turing Way Book Dashes.
* Proposing an idea for training session or community events.
* Propose a new working group.
* Writing a new chapter.
* Establishing an informal collaboration.
* Other things that you can do as individuals.

We have discuss specific roles under this level in {ref}`fw-community`.

## 2. Maintainer Level

This level includes two types of members.  
    
### _The Turing Way_ Working Groups

Within *The Turing Way*, {ref}`Working Groups (or WGs)<subprojects>` are formed by a small groups of people who work together on specific topics, themes, or types of work identified by community members as areas of interest. 
From the onset, different kinds of work in *The Turing Way* project have been led and executed by different groups of people.
For example, since 2020, localisation and translation work is being carrying out by a group international community members, who although initially worked in an ad-hoc manner, later were named and recognised as 'Translation and Localisation Team'.
Similarly, in 2021, after moving Book Dash as online-first event, a 'Book Dash Planning Committee' was convened yearly joined by a few previous attendees of Book Dashes who supported the planning and delivery of the event.
Nonetheless, formation of WGs had largely remained informal: after existing streams of work had been identified, community members engaged with the work were formally recognised and encouraged to develop ways of working that align with their needs.

However, as the community has grown, WGs have been more formally established and explicit pathways are being created to formalise WGs, details for which are shared in the Community Handbook ([see preview](https://deploy-preview-3499--the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/working-groups)).

Current working groups are organised to provide leadership across the following areas of work:
* Localisation and Translation
* Accessibility
* Infrastructure
* Book Dash

You can find details about these members in our [ways of working document](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).

### Project Delivery Team

_The Turing Way_ {ref}`Project Delivery Team Members<fw-community-delivery-team>` are staff members hired to take on responsibilities for delivering and maintaining work, for example, Research Community Manager and Research Project Manager.
Project leads may offer support at maintenance level , but decision-making at this level must stay with the community and stewards of the community, including the Research Project Manager.

Decisions that **Collective Choice or Maintainer Level** members make include the following:

* Setting up, leading or representing a Working Group in different types of roles as leads, co-leads, secretary and contributing members. 
* Facilitating the creation of a new working group
* Decisions for planning and hosting the working group meetings and recurrence of the meetings.
* Organising and distributing the responsibilities within each working group.
* Proposing which conferences to participate in or apply to represent their work in _The Turing Way_
* Proposing which funding proposals or responding to a call for applications to support their work in _The Turing Way_
* Suggesting changes in ongoing processes or current working models through discussions
* Organising a [Fireside Chat](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/fireside-chat.html) in conversation with the project delivery team
* Clarifying unclear processes in that guide the work of a Working Group
* Escalating issues that can not be addressed at maintainer level

## 3. Constitutional-level

Strategic decisions and significant changes in the project, such as leadership, recruitment, goals, governance and funding.
As of 2024, the constitutional level decision making sits with the project leads, Kirstie Whitaker and Malvika Sharan.
Their aspiration is to move decision-making power to the community through process development through which more community representation, perspectives and inputs can be brought at this level.
Ideally, the chairs/representatives/leads of Working Groups will join this level in the near future.

In the future, we hope that we can work with the community to further design roles such as for community representatives to advice and build stringer accountability for decisions made at this level.

- Providing leadership and strategic directions in the project.
- Applying for core funding, and approving expenses.
- Building clarity around budget and resource available for the maintainers and community members
- Proposing new directions of the community
- Process whereby the co-chairs of the WGs can represent community and WG interests at this level of decision making
- Designing community representation roles such as through an Advisory Group 
- Support each working group in developing process documentation for their decision-making process, and identifying resources they need to continue their work
- Meeting other institutional obligations and communicating them transparently to the community.

This document is in its early stage and will evolve in conversation with the community. 
Please join Community Forums to stay up to date with the development.

You can find details about these members in our [ways of working document](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).
