## SciPy 2020: Sprint proposal

- Website: https://www.scipy2020.scipy.org/
- Location: Online
- Date: 08 July 2020

*Due to the time zone incompatibility, Malvika did not run this sprint (the session was scheduled at 10:00 BST)*

## Authors

Malvika Sharan

## Title: _The Turing Way_: A guide to reproducible, ethical, inclusive and collaborative data science 

**Goal and Tasks Planned**

You've heard of a Book Sprint, right? One week when folks get together and write a book? The Turing Way hosts a similar but less demanding event called Book Dash for researchers to create chapters on data science skills!

The Turing Way is an open-source, community-led, and community-develop book project that aims to bring together researchers to develop data science practices “too easy not to do”. The collaboration and contributions are facilitated on an online project repository (https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way).

With a Turing Way Book Dash as a SciPy Sprint event, we aim to engage with the interested participants in a one-day collaborative event where they can work with others to add their work or a new skill to the Turing Way book or take time to learn the best practices from the existing chapters. You can check the report from the past book dash events here: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/workshops/book-dash/.

**Importance of this session**

Reproducible and ethical research is necessary to ensure that scientific work can be trusted. Funders and stakeholders are beginning to require that publications and research outreach include access to the underlying data and analysis code. The goal is to ensure that all results can be independently verified and built upon in future work. This is sometimes easier said than done. Sharing data and code requires an understanding of data management, library sciences, software development, and continuous integration techniques: skills that are not widely taught or expected of academic researchers and data scientists. The Turing Way handbook in its current state includes training material on version control, analysis, testing, and open and transparent communication with its users. A diverse set of community members working across different disciplines and career stages within data research and training have contributed to the development of this project.  

There are so many SciPy attendees who have the expertise that the Turing Way and the data science community can benefit from. Their skills and contributions that we're looking for include, but are not limited to:

- great examples and case studies of reproducible research from their own work
- writing new chapters inspired by their projects
- editing the current chapters on reproducibility, i.e. GitHub, git, Jupyter, Binder, continuous integration etc.
- science communication skills: skills in writing, editing and/or exciting interactive communications
- updating how the book looks online (css, logos, layout etc)
