# Collaboration Workshop 2021

* Website: https://www.software.ac.uk/cw21
* Location: Online
* Date: 30 March - 01 April 2021

## Authors
Arielle Bennett

## Session collaborators
Laura Carter

# Submitting a Lightning Talk Abstract on the Activism Chapter in the Ethics Book to SSIs Collaborations Workshop 2021 

## Lightning talk title
*For example, the name of the project, initiative or topic you want to present. 
If you want to use a lightning talk slot to introduce yourself and your work, then the title can simply be your full name!*

Inviting contributions to the Activism Chapter of the _Turing Way Guide to Ethical Research_. 

## Lightning talk abstract
*Just 2-3 sentences to add context to your lightning talk title in Question 4. This will not be published anywhere, but will help us to review your submission.*

There are many circumstances where researchers engage in activism to achieve scientific and structural change, such as maintaining ethical standards in research, advocating for human rights, improving working conditions, or tackling systemic inequalities. 
In fact, we all can engage in activism across topics related to our work, institutions, research practices, cross-disciplinary issues such as open research, workplace policy or on topics unrelated to their career.
However, there are limited accessible resources that provide guidance on how to lead or participate in civic activism, leaving people unsure of where to begin.
In this lightning talk, I would introduce the latest chapter "Activism for Researchers" in the _Turing Way Guide for Ethical Research_ and invite contributions in the form of examples, case studies and feedback.

This chapter welcomes additional contributions and case studies as it continues to expand to include examples of activism in data science and tech across the globe. 

You can find the Activism Chapter here: https://book.the-turing-way.org/ethical-research/activism.html

## Lightning talk theme(s)
*Does your lightning talk relate to any of our themes? (Select all that apply.)*

[]FAIR Research Software
[X] Diversity and Inclusion
[] Software Sustainability

## Other:
*Any other information you want to include?*
