book/website/reproducible-research/rdm/rdm-resources.md, before:

(rr-rdm-resources)=
# Resources

(rr-rdm-resources-learn)=
## What to Learn Next

If you have not read the chapters on {ref}`rr-open` and {ref}`cm-citable` yet, you might want to read it now for more context on how Research Data Management supports Open Research and how these practises can result in getting attribution for your work.

(rr-rdm-resources-reading)=
## Further Reading

- [Detailed guidance on sharing personal or sensitive data from the UK Data Service](https://www.ukdataservice.ac.uk/manage-data/legal-ethical/consent-data-sharing.aspx)
- [An overview of storage solutions and their advantages and disadvantages](https://web.archive.org/web/20180605213316/http://datasupport.researchdata.nl/en/start-the-course/iii-the-research-phase/storing-data/)
- {cite:ps}`Henry2021RDM`
- {cite:ps}`Borer2009RDM`

(rr-rdm-resources-resources)=
## Resources
- [FAIR Cookbook](https://faircookbook.elixir-europe.org/content/home.html)
- [ELIXIR Research Data Management Kit (RDMkit)](https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/)
- [Research data management UK data service](https://ukdataservice.ac.uk/learning-hub/research-data-management/)
- [Webinar: Know Moore About Research Data Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NCUT6MA-zVA)
- [Webinar: Introduction to Research Data Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=duDCcV8xhQo)
- Podcast: Within and Between: [S2E13](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6klHxGUi0v5m5pTFUHbkC4?si=f681d9091fd0490d&nd=1) & [S2E14](https://open.spotify.com/episode/27SXLCsjhtvh4LyfaRIG92?si=9ab8715953584d46&nd=1) on Data Management
- [Slides on Research Data Management](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4048591)
- [Overview of RDM tools](https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/index.html)
- [Data resources](https://chanzuckerberg.github.io/open-science/data_sharing/overview)
- [Ten Common Data Management Mistakes](https://cghlewis.com/talk/sssp_ecf/) & [A Curated Collection of Data Management Resources](https://cghlewis.com/blog/data_mgmt_resources/) by Crystal Lewis 
- [Data Management for Psychological Science: A Crowdsourced Syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z15bL9cP84re6d4zdkO60q06lnknnN3xEktN7GnLFFQ/edit)
- [Slides: Practicalities of Data Handling](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5078264)
- [Slides: Research Data Management in the Life Sciences](https://osf.io/mvrny/)

Commit message:

add resources from Utrecht University RDM team

book/website/reproducible-research/rdm/rdm-resources.md, after:

(rr-rdm-resources)=
# Resources

(rr-rdm-resources-learn)=
## What to Learn Next

If you have not read the chapters on {ref}`rr-open` and {ref}`cm-citable` yet, you might want to read it now for more context on how Research Data Management supports Open Research and how these practises can result in getting attribution for your work.

(rr-rdm-resources-reading)=
## Further Reading

- [Detailed guidance on sharing personal or sensitive data from the UK Data Service](https://www.ukdataservice.ac.uk/manage-data/legal-ethical/consent-data-sharing.aspx)
- [An overview of storage solutions and their advantages and disadvantages](https://web.archive.org/web/20180605213316/http://datasupport.researchdata.nl/en/start-the-course/iii-the-research-phase/storing-data/)
- {cite:ps}`Henry2021RDM`
- {cite:ps}`Borer2009RDM`

(rr-rdm-resources-resources)=
## Resources
- [FAIR Cookbook](https://faircookbook.elixir-europe.org/content/home.html)
- [ELIXIR Research Data Management Kit (RDMkit)](https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/)
- [Research data management UK data service](https://ukdataservice.ac.uk/learning-hub/research-data-management/)
- [Webinar: Know Moore About Research Data Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NCUT6MA-zVA)
- [Webinar: Introduction to Research Data Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=duDCcV8xhQo)
- Podcast: Within and Between: [S2E13](https://open.spotify.com/episode/6klHxGUi0v5m5pTFUHbkC4?si=f681d9091fd0490d&nd=1) & [S2E14](https://open.spotify.com/episode/27SXLCsjhtvh4LyfaRIG92?si=9ab8715953584d46&nd=1) on Data Management
- [Slides on Research Data Management](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4048591)
- [Overview of RDM tools](https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/index.html)
- [Data resources](https://chanzuckerberg.github.io/open-science/data_sharing/overview)
- [Resources by the Utrecht University Research Data Management support team](https://zenodo.org/communities/uu-rdm-support/?page=1&size=20)
- [Ten Common Data Management Mistakes](https://cghlewis.com/talk/sssp_ecf/) & [A Curated Collection of Data Management Resources](https://cghlewis.com/blog/data_mgmt_resources/) by Crystal Lewis 
- [Data Management for Psychological Science: A Crowdsourced Syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z15bL9cP84re6d4zdkO60q06lnknnN3xEktN7GnLFFQ/edit)
- [Slides: Practicalities of Data Handling](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5078264)
- [Slides: Research Data Management in the Life Sciences](https://osf.io/mvrny/)
